There are several Western versions of the story, of which the best-known concerns a chick which believes that the sky is falling when an acorn falls on its head.
The valves are joined together on the outside by a ligament, and are closed when necessary by strong internal muscles (anterior and posterior adductor muscles).
Apart from organizing the Hungarian Tolkien aficionados into a community (choir, charity ball, creative workshops), the association has grown multifaceted since its foundation in 2002, it provides professional and technical editorial support for new publications, publishes the semiannual magazine "Lassi Laurië" featuring scholarly articles, interviews, and literary works, and it organizes numerous conferences, meetings and summer camps.
In 1870 he was elected to the Brisbane Council as an alderman for the Fortitude Valley Ward.
Considering the toxicokinetics of aldrin in the environment, the efficacy of the compound has been determined.
Respiratory alkalosis is caused by hyperventilation, resulting in a loss of carbon dioxide.
Dihydroxylation of alkene produces diol, and dihydroxylation of alkyne produces vicinal dicarbonyl.
These simple molecular mechanisms account for the integrative properties of allosteric enzymes.
The alluvium deposited by the river has been worked over by the wind, which gave rise to a number of small dunes and sand mounds.
While zeolites (microporous, aluminosilicate minerals) can give some insights into the mechanical response of MOFs, the presence of organic linkers as opposed to zeolites, makes for novel mechanical responses.
A pulmonary alveolus (plural: alveoli, from Latin "alveolus," "little cavity"), also known as an air sac or air space, is one of millions of hollow, distensible cup-shaped cavities in the lungs where pulmonary gas exchange takes place.
The striped bass (Morone saxatilis), also called the Atlantic striped bass, striper, linesider, rock, or rockfish, is an anadromous perciform fish of the family Moronidae found primarily along the Atlantic coast of North America.
A natural bait angler, with few exceptions, will use a common prey species of the target fish as a bait.
Like other annelids, the leech is a segmented animal, but unlike other annelids, the segmentation is masked by external ring markings (annulations).
After speaking on television about his experience with model Hila Elmalich, an anorexic whom he rushed to hospital after she collapsed and who later died, Barkan was deluged by telephone calls from girls and young women suffering from anorexia.
Though the shelves are usually fertile, if anoxic conditions prevail during sedimentation, the deposits may over geologic time become sources for fossil fuels.
The one-way communication delay due to the speed of light ranges from about 3 minutes at closest approach (approximated by perihelion of Mars minus aphelion of Earth) to 22 minutes at the largest possible superior conjunction (approximated by aphelion of Mars plus aphelion of Earth).
A study of blood and bone marrow samples obtained from 18 aplastic anemia patients revealed more than 30 potential specific candidate autoantigens after the serologic screening of a fetal liver library with sera from 8 patients.
The PYD and CARD domains are members of the six-helix bundle death domain-fold superfamily that mediates assembly of large signaling complexes in the inflammatory and apoptotic signaling pathways via the activation of caspase.
Located in a large park surrounding a manor, Opeka arboretum, with its 65 hectares, is the largest of the three arboreta existing today in Croatia (the others are Trsteno in southern Dalmatia and Lisičine near Voćin in western Slavonia).
He also starred in several music videos of popular boy band g.o.d, a fellow SidusHQ artiste at that time, and was directed by actor Jung Woo-sung.
The book was one of the first three reference works on asanas (yoga postures) in the development of yoga as exercise in the mid-20th century, the other two being Selvarajan Yesudian and Elisabeth Haich's 1941 "Sport és Jóga" (in Spanish: an English version appeared in 1953) and Theos Bernard's 1944 ".
The cathedral is a large Gothic edifice of ashlar stone, though the lower levels show that it was built onto an earlier Romanesque cathedral.
In reviving the atelier tradition, R. H. Ives Gammell (1893-1981) adopted sight-size as the basis of his teaching method.
Chaplin - a great cinema auteur - revealed his innermost feelings through his films.
A castle could have more than one bailey: at Warkworth Castle an inner and an outer bailey was constructed, or alternatively, several baileys could flank the motte, as at Windsor Castle.
Choodi Bazaar is the main market for bangles, semi-precious stones, pearls, jewelry, products such as silverware, Nirmal, Kalamkari paintings, bidriware, lacquer bangles studded with stones, saris and handwoven materials of silk, cotton, brocade, velvet and gold embroidered fabrics, traditional Khara Dupattas, lacquer bangles, and perfumes.
Archaeologists have established that long barrows were built by pastoralist communities shortly after the introduction of agriculture to Britain from continental Europe.
The bast fibers of some species can be used for rope.
In 1933, the company and its advertising agency, Milton Biow, searched for a "living trademark" to represent their brand, and chose Johnny Roventini, a midget bellhop at the Hotel New Yorker.
The 2002-2003 "Batman" storyline ""featured a more bestial Croc who had been mutated against his will to appear more reptilian.
This source - a contemporary composition bewailing the cultural upheaval and oppression inflicted upon the Welsh after the Anglo-Norman conquests of 1093 - may refer to subjugation suffered under Arnulf and his father.
biathlon events were held shared by the Cesana San Sicario complex.
In North America, wild sheep diverged into two extant species — Dall sheep, which occupy Alaska and northwestern Canada, and bighorn sheep, which range from southwestern Canada to Mexico.
GAO reviewed three major waste streams (solids, hazardous chemicals, and oily bilge water) and concluded that 83% of the cases involved discharges of oil or oil-based products, the volumes of which ranged from a few drops to hundreds of gallons.
As a result of that investigation, Metro added concrete-filled metal bollards to all stations on the Harbor Transitway and the El Monte Busway to prevent vehicles from entering the platform.
The Wrights station agent inked in waybills for loadings of hay, beans, prunes and figs, cargo that would fill two or three boxcars a day.
Vegetable production was: potato 853,806 tonnes, onion 705,795 tonnes, tomato 675,384 tonnes, cauliflower 578,953 tonnes, leafy vegetables 370,646 tonnes, brinjal 331,169 tonnes, guard 307,793 tonnes, peas 111,081 tonnes and others 269,993 tonnes.
Nevertheless, his government introduced a number of progressive measures, such as an expansion of spending on education by providing a standard bursary for all students in tertiary studies from 1975.
His group, Alkibar (the name means'messenger of the great river' in Sonrai) consists of two acoustic guitars, a njarka (a one-string fiddle), a njurkle (a kind of lute), calabash and djembe percussion, and two female singers as well as male singers in the choruses.
As for the anecdotes about exercise, they likely experienced a "runner's high" due to their bodies releasing endorphins, which are endogenous opioid agonists, along with anandamide and other endogenous cannabinoid agonists.
Recordings include Bach's complete motets, the Magnificats of both J.S. Bach and C.P.E. Bach, the first American recording of the F Major and G minor Masses, and three solo soprano cantatas featuring Elizabeth Futral.
The Italian Job is a 1969 British comedy caper film, written by Troy Kennedy Martin, produced by Michael Deeley, directed by Peter Collinson, and starring Michael Caine.
With the carboxylate groups separated by four methylene groups, adipic acid is suited for intramolecular condensation reactions.
Gill rakers in fish are bony or cartilaginous processes that project from the branchial arch (gill arch) and are involved with suspension feeding tiny prey.
He hints that the underlying cause of his addiction was from the death of his catatonic brother Davie.
Any piece of DNA with the point centromere DNA sequence on it will typically form a centromere if present in the appropriate species.
Each summer this botanical garden/museum hosts "Bloom Night," the one night each summer it is predicted the greatest number of cereus flowers will be in bloom, opening from 6pm until midnight to allow guests to stroll the grounds and view the flowers.
This is an incomplete list of castles and châteaux in Belgium.
The Autodromo Dino Ferrari had received safety upgrades from the previous year, including slight track modifications after the Variante Alta chicane and extended runoff areas at the Rivazza complex.
After chiding him for his joke, she decides to fail him and make him take the course over again.
A probable parent body of the H chondrites (comprising about 46% of the ordinary chondrites) is 6 Hebe, but its spectrum is dissimilar due to what is likely a metal impact melt component.
This "bakufu" title identifies a regulatory agency with responsibility for supervising the handling and trading of cinnabar and for superintending all cinnabar mining and cinnabar-extraction activities in Japan.
A cladogram uses lines that branch off in different directions ending at a clade, a group of organisms with a last common ancestor.
Clairvoyance is a book by Leadbeater originally published in 1899 in London.
Males moisten eggs by squirting fluid from their cloacae when humidity is low.
The density of its cocoanut [sic] groves has excited the astonishment of all mariners who have visited it, according to a report written in 1874.
One of the corollaries of the conical action is that collets may draw the work axially a slight amount as they close.
The following year the colliery still employed 299 miners.
In the Twin Cities, MnDOT began using them to display freeway travel times in 2003 or 2004 to help drivers plan alternate routes to avoid heavy traffic if necessary (although a generic message like "buckle up for safety" is sometimes encountered during special safety campaigns planned in conjuncture with the State Patrol and Department of Public Safety).
He earned a reputation for being an engaging and somewhat contrarian figure in the Norwegian political landscape.
Some are turning to renewable energy - such as wind power, hydropower, geothermal power and biodiesel from copra oil - to defend against potential rises in oil prices.
Durham has always had a cornucopia of churches, even to this day the town is scattered with beautiful old buildings of faith.
The engine came with a fire suppression sprinkler system and was encased in a streamlined cowling to protect it from sea spray.
The slaty-legged crake or banded crake (Rallina eurizonoides) is a waterbird in the rail and crake family, Rallidae.
IGN review praised the game's presentation, "The graphics and sound add to the game, rather than take your attention away with a goofy voice or crummy animation," but pointed out that the game's online experience was not fully functioning at launch with some patch problems.
At the 2006 Winter Olympics, Smith played second for David Murdoch and finished 4th, but Smith had the highest accuracy of any curler in the men's competition round robin.
Specific genes have also had reported association with the development of intracranial aneurysms, including perlecan, elastin, collagen type 1 A2, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, endothelin receptor A and cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor.
The hi-hat cymbals (nicknamed "hats") consist of two cymbals mounted facing each other on a metal rod with folding support legs that keep a hollow support cylinder vertical.
In mammalian cells, there are two or more genes encoding cytosolic Hsp90 homologues, with the human Hsp90α showing 85% sequence identity to Hsp90β.
The Sings draw significant influence from artists such as Regina Spektor, Mumford and Sons, and Sufjan Stevens, while also dabbling in pop icons such as Ariana Grande, Lady Gaga, Nicki Minaj, and Taylor Swift.
These paths are regularly maintained, eliminating the spread of detritus in green spaces.
Cementation occurs as part of the diagenesis or lithification of sediments.
Digoxin immune fab or digoxin-specific antibody is an antidote for overdose of digoxin.
A dihedral angle is the angle between two intersecting planes or half-planes.
Some modern writers believe it was the cur, not the collie, that was crossed with the dingo to create the now-extinct Halls Heeler in Australia, making the cur an ancestor of both the Australian Cattle Dog and the Australian Stumpy Tail Cattle Dog, the latter inheriting the cur's bobtail.
The duchesse de Chartres had a dowry of six million livres,, and an annual allowance of over 500,000 livres.
They were the largest member of the order Sirenia, whose only extant members are the dugong ("Dugong dugon") and the manatees ("Trichechus" spp.).
The fixed undercarriage had mainwheels with stub-axles on short, rigid duralumin tubes from the lower fuselage, giving a track of only.
Eccrine glands are composed of an intraepidermal spiral duct, the "acrosyringium";
In the Caribbean, at least, the cattle egret has been implicated in the spread of heartwater, since it colonized the islands in the 1950s.
The eigenvector associated with the largest eigenvalue of the matrix is the Frobenius-Perron eigenvector, which is also the invariant measure, "i.e" the actual density of the particles in the ring.
Thirty previously unknown lines by Archilochus, in the elegiac meter, describing events leading up to the Trojan War, in which Achaeans battled Telephus king of Mysia, have been identified among the Oxyrhynchus Papyri and published in "The Oxyrhynchus Papyri," Volume LXIX (Graeco-Roman Memoirs 89, 2007).
The blood flow will then carry the embolus (via blood vessels) to various parts of the body where it can block the lumen (vessel cavity) and cause vessel obstruction or occlusion.
In Lloyd-Jones's view Gow's work on Theocritus and Hellenistic epigrams will remain "an essential instrument of scholarship."
The epigraph to the poem is from St. Augustine's "Confessions," III, i, written between 397 and 398 AD:
The catalytic triad present in microsomal epoxide hydrolase is composed of glutamine, histidine and aspartic acid.
The obverse is coated in white enamel and bears the escutcheon of Her Majesty's Arms in right of Saskatchewan within a circular ribbon that displays the provincial motto - "Multis E Gentibus Vires" (From many peoples strength) - all topped by a St. Edward's Crown symbolizing the Canadian monarch's role as the fount of honour.
After serving all his guests, he presented each piece of the tea-equipage for their inspection, along with an exquisite "kakemono," which Okakura described as "a wonderful writing by an ancient monk dealing with the evanescence of all things."
The hemiparasitic species (transferred from Scrophulariaceae) with green leaves are capable of photosynthesis, and may be either facultative or obligate parasites.
This soon fazed out and Declan's relationship with Bridget helped mature him as a character.
In the United Kingdom, for example, rosebay willowherb ("Chamaenerion angustifolium") is widely found on mesotrophic soils dominated by false oat-grass ("Arrhenatherum elatius"), cock's-foot grass ("Dactylis glomerata"), and red fescue ("Festuca rubra"), while great willowherb ("Epilobium hirsutum") is found in mesotrophic grassland with stinging nettle ("Urtica dioica").
One mechanism to explain this may come from its ability to bind to the extracellular matrix glycoprotein fibronectin and block fibronectin's interactions with specific syndecans.
The three most prominent filibusters of that era were Narciso López and John Quitman in Cuba and William Walker in Baja California, Sonora, Costa Rica and lastly Nicaragua.
Likewise, it has been postulated that the story was worked into dramatic form in the "Miracle de la fille d'un roy" (1454), but scholars have also rejected this hypothesis, claiming that the transference of the motif of a cross-dressing heroine escaping her father's incestuous desires results from an oral tradition rather than direct textual influence.
Spawning takes place once a year and the young fish stay mostly in shallow water in the fiords and bays, feeding mainly on zooplankton.
The common name comes from its iridescent wings, which sparkle with purple-blue flecks in the sunlight.
Volley guns (such as the Mitrailleuse) and double-barreled pistols relied on duplicating all parts of the gun, though the Nock gun used the otherwise-undesirable "chain fire" phenomenon (where multiple chambers are ignited at once) to propagate a spark from a single flintlock mechanism to multiple barrels.
The hooded butcherbird has a complex fluting song, made up of many varied components.
He moved to New York City, going on to win the United States flyweight title in 1962, 1963 and 1964.
In 2010, Krueger's campaign was named by the "Houston Chronicle" as the ninth-worst in Texas' modern political history, saying: "Caught in the middle, Krueger seemed like a bland centrist facing a fiery liberal and a folksy conservative.
While both Milton and Chatsworth were rich rivals of Dobie Gillis's (and both characters shared the same actress, Doris Packer, for a mother) and were, according to canon, cousins, where Beatty's Milton was a menacing and athletic physical threat, Franken's pompous, foppish Chatsworth tended to plot and scheme his way through competitions with Dobie, more often than not using his riches to get ahead.
The statement further adds sometime between January and February 2004, he was held at Ward 325, where he was reportedly subject to solitary confinement and white torture, before being granted a 2-days furlough on or around 8 February 2004.
The gibberbird is endemic to Australia and is known to inhabit the sparsely vegetated, stony regions of gibber desert.
Without this intervention, usually done under anesthetic, the baby and permanent teeth will occupy the same socket in the jaw, which can cause tartar deposits, tooth decay, gingivitis and periodontitis, and can lead to premature loss of teeth.
Out of fear for their children's safety, Adam and Eve have set their glen as the boundary, preventing them from going beyond the waterfall.
Both in Paris and New York she made a habit of making circus sketches which she later developed into paintings, gouache, and prints to which American Artists Group purchased reproduction rights.
Over 90% of SCN responds to treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (filgrastim), which has significantly improved survival.
Indiana and Purdue first met on the gridiron in 1891.
The Rosedale property contains two buildings of major importance, the ruins of an 18th-century grist mill, and numerous subsidiary buildings.
These genera are more closely related to smaller-billed birds than to other grosbeaks.
The Subtropical Countercurrent is a shallow area of this "C"; at only about 250 dbar under the surface, circulation is a simpler closed, anticyclonic gyre.
There was a recovery in farming from 1939 to 1945 and as a result of financial incentives to cultivate more land, the clearing of hedgerows and trees began.
A henchman (vernacular: "hencher"), is a loyal employee, supporter, or aide to some powerful figure engaged in nefarious or criminal enterprises.
Zuniceratops was a herbivore like other ceratopsians and was probably a herd animal as well.
Studies done in mouse models have shown frequent haemorrhages and increased vascular permeability has been seen in mice who are heterozygous for Aggf1.
Highly associative in approach, his dense, highbrow prose is often brought to bear upon the worlds of low-budget exploitation films and pulp fiction as well as more upscale and respectable venues of the cinematic, theater, literary, or popular music worlds.
A glutamate residue, Glu72, is positioned ideally to perform most of the acid-base catalysis required in this mechanism, with histidine residues His45 and His193 appearing to play roles as well.
Meanwhile, in 1662, the Virginia General Assembly passed an export tax of 2 shillings per hogshead of tobacco, and Bland became its first collector.
Spain has also announced moves to ban homeopathy and other pseudotherapies.
Contumyces is named after the contemporary amateur Italian mycologist, Marco E. Contu (professionally an Italian criminal court judge) and is a replacement for the illegitimate generic name "Jacobia," so named after Jakob Emanuel Lange by Contu, but unfortunately a later homonym of "Jacobea," a genus of flowering plants.
Some prescription drugs are commonly abused, particularly those marketed as analgesics, including fentanyl (Duragesic), hydrocodone (Vicodin), oxycodone (OxyContin), oxymorphone (Opana), propoxyphene (Darvon), hydromorphone (Dilaudid), meperidine (Demerol), and diphenoxylate (Lomotil).
A hypha consists of one or more cells surrounded by a tubular cell wall.
It is unknown how Anastasia managed to still be in Russia, but Sergei arranges Dr. Meier of the famous Russian Scientific Institute to hypnotize Prince Alexander to temporarily erase his memory of his real heritage and replace it with that of a "farm boy who grew up in the countryside of England."
Leopards are depicted hunting deer against a red background in the upper scene of the fresco while lions chasing an ibex is illustrated in the lower region.
The British movie impresario asked Sternberg to film novelist and poet Robert Graves's biographical account of Roman Emperor Claudius.
Henry, who had improv training, was able to play Prout with an intense deadpan sincerity, as well as to stay in character through unscripted interviews.
Balthazar takes Morgana, body and soul, from Veronica into himself, but Morgana escapes and tries to incinerate them.
Culture Watch columnist Christopher Gildemeister defended the PTC as being "not homophobic" but simply opposed to "sexual references or innuendo (of any variety, hetero, homo or other) aired where children might be exposed to them.
A pleconaril intranasal spray had reached phase II clinical trial for the treatment of the common cold symptoms and asthma complications.
All of niobium's isomers decay by isomeric transition or beta decay except Nb, which has a minor electron capture branch.
However, this unit is not officially part of the metric system (SI), and is regarded as obsolete, having been replaced in many uses by the SI unit of energy, the joule (J).
Armenian cuisine refers to shish-style kebabs as "khorovats," and doner kebab as "Karsi khorovats" after the city of Kars which became known for the dish during the time of the Ottoman Empire.
It also adopted an official mascot that year, a ladybug named Dot.
For the loan brought on name of restaurant, a ruthless Loan Shark Raajali holds Aravind as captive and demanded 20 Lakh rupees in three days.
Most pigments used in paint tend to be spherical, but lamellar pigments, such as glass flake and MIO have overlapping plates, which impede the path of water molecules.
It is generally recommended to perform a laparotomy when the diagnosis of an abdominal pregnancy is made.
This gene is a highly conserved a leucine zipper motif, and it was also named as the leucine zipper transcription regulator 2 (LZTR2).
He also mounted his men on the finest horses (horses were in such abundance that he gave 30 of them to unmounted men of now famous Captain (later General) John Hunt Morgan's cavalry squadron) and gave them fine well-crafted carriages, caissons, limbers and other accoutrements he had special-ordered from another firm in Memphis.
The lobate lac insect is known to feed on more than 300 plant species.
While May will not marry the Senator, her sister Jennie (Marsh) does marry a man named "Bull" McGee (Crisp), an abusive lout just like her father.
Nowadays the LigaSP manages the parades, repassing the lucres to the samba schools of the Special and Access Groups, creating a group of sporting samba schools.
Bonsack later served as chairman of the track construction commission, approving the final homologation of Cesana Pariol prior to the 2006 Winter Olympics for luge to compete at the track.
So, the expected evolutionary history is that gene duplication of the c-lysozyme was followed by mutation, resulting in the loss of lysozyme catalytic activity in alpha-lactalbumin.  
The macula has a yellow pigmentation, from screening pigments, and is known as the macula lutea.
The proportion of household spaces which are detached or semi-detached houses is higher than average (27.8% and 33.6%, compared with 22.3% and 30.7%), while the proportion of households living in apartments, flats and maisonettes is much lower (13.1% against 22.1%). The proportion of terraced household spaces is similar (25.4% compared with 24.5%).
Although Pixton Park is situated within the manor of Dulverton, the manorial chapel relating to Pixton is situated not at Dulverton but within the Church of St Nicholas, Brushford, across the River Barle, as the lordship of the manor of Dulverton was held from 1568 by the Sydenham family seated at Combe House, on the opposite side of the River Barle to Dulverton and Pixton.
On January 20, 2008, as the sheriff's department was preparing to force the sale of the museum to pay the fine, the Mt. Blanco Fossil Museum auctioned off the prize exhibit of its collection. The world's largest mastodon skull was auctioned with Heritage Auctions of Dallas, and sold for $191,200, of which Taylor received $128,000, enabling the museum to stay open.
Furthermore, research using "S. cerevisiae" has played a central role in understanding the mechanism of meiotic recombination and the adaptive function of meiosis. Candida spp. are responsible for candidiasis, causing infections of the mouth and/or throat (known as thrush) and vagina (commonly called yeast infection).
For example, final consonant cluster reduction is common among those speaking dialects of Singapore English, and they may use cluster reduction strategies known as metathesis, glottalization, and deletion.
He asks to buy his way back into the crew, proposing to run a business in Atlantic City involving prostitution and meth trafficking.
In research, metronomes can be used to maintain desired cadences in different physiological laboratory-based tests.
Shortly after the collision, "Ville du Havre's" main and mizzen masts collapsed, smashing two of the liner's life boats and killing several people.
Monaural sound has largely been replaced by stereo sound in most entertainment applications, but remains the standard for radiotelephone communications, telephone networks, and audio induction loops for use with hearing aids.
The monsoonal rains in October and November 2003 in the country killed 19 people.
Another example is the schizophrenia-linked gene MTHFR, with murine knockouts showing decreased levels of reelin in the cerebellum.
Tintagel is used as a locus for the Arthurian mythos by the poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson in the poem "Idylls of the King" and Algernon Charles Swinburne's "Tristram of Lyonesse," a literary version of the Tristan and Iseult legend.
Myxoid DFSP, which has areas of myxoid degeneration in the stroma
CC's have four main flavours, original, tasty cheese, Tangy Salsa and nacho cheese.
Being a navvy labourer became a cultural experience unto its own during the 19th century.
Examples of pop-culture neologisms include the American Alt-right (2010s), the Canadian portmanteau "Snowmageddon" (2009), the Russian parody "Monstration" (ca. 2004), Santorum (c. 2003).
Peta Stephens (born 15 April 1978) is a former Australian netball player.
The sword-tail newt, sword-tailed newt, yellow-bellied newt, or Okinawa newt (Cynops ensicauda) is a species of true salamander from the Ryukyu Archipelago in Japan.
Many accounts of Kant's philosophy treat "noumenon" and "thing-in-itself" as synonymous, and there is textual evidence for this relationship.
In order to accept a stainless steel crown, the entire occlusal surface should be reduced by 1-1.5 mm and interproximally contacts should be cleared by cutting athin mesial and distal portion or "slice" subgingivally by holding the tip of a thin high-speed bur at 15-20° relative to the long axis of the tooth, to avoid the creation of a shoulder.
He is noted for directing the sports documentaries that "shed light on the oddballs and underdogs of the sporting world."
This non-coding RNA was originally identified in "E.coli" using high-density oligonucleotide probe arrays (microarray.) The function of this ncRNA is unknown.
MDC1 is indirectly down regulated by the oncogene AKT1.
Some languages flexibly integrate onomatopoeic words into their structure
A nonsense mutation in one gene of an operon prevents the translation of subsequent genes in the unit.
Formby's biographers, Alan Randall and Ray Seaton, opine that in his late 40s, Formby "was greying and thickening out," and was too old to play the innocent young Lancashire lad.
The white-eared opossum is about one to three pounds in weight and has black and grey fur, with white hair covering their ears and face, and dark hair on their long tails.
Bacterial microcompartments are widespread, membrane-bound organelles that are made of a protein shell that surrounds and encloses various enzymes.
With plenty of vocal outtakes left in the studio from previous sessions, Hot Productions continued creating the album without the artists' input.
The adults oviposit or insert their eggs into the hypocotyls before the seed matures or drops to the mud below.
The system of parks for the City of Baltimore along the various stream valleys with inter-connected landscaped boulevards or parkways was designed and laid out by the famous landscape architect and developer Frederick Law Olmsted and the company later established by his sons in two famous reports in 1904 and 1926, of which Lake Roland and its Dam formed and integral part.
The yellow chat (Epthianura crocea) is a small passerine bird endemic to Australia.
They argue that ID is an attempt to put a patina of secularity on top of what is a fundamentally religious belief and thus that the "Teach the Controversy" exhortation is disingenuous, particularly when contrasted to his statements in "The Wall Street Journal" and other secular media.
Archeological sites in the High Schells Wilderness include petroglyphs and lithic scatters.
Upon the pharyngeal arches Auricle Hillocks begin to form.
First marketed in 1987, it used systematic phonics and scaffolded stories to teach letter-sound correlations (phonics) as part of children's literacy.
At its most basic, a phylum can be defined in two ways: as a group of organisms with a certain degree of morphological or developmental similarity (the phenetic definition), or a group of organisms with a certain degree of evolutionary relatedness (the phylogenetic definition).
The pied kingfisher sometimes reproduces cooperatively, with young non-breeding birds from an earlier brood assisting parents or even unrelated older birds.
The facade is segmented by pilasters in the palladian giant order, that is they continue in the building's entire height.
Also pilferage of enemy spies and widespread anarchy prevailed in the kingdom.
In German the word "Kessel" (literally a cauldron though cognate with kettle) is commonly used to refer to an encircled military force, and a "Kesselschlacht" (cauldron battle) refers to a pincer movement.
There is no evidence of substantial woodlands nearby; 90% of the charcoal recovered at the site was from pistachio or almond trees.
This is to prevent accidental touches to the piste from registering as off target and resulting in a halt.
Some sources claim that entrapment of the plantar nerve resulting from compression between the metatarsal heads, as originally proposed by Morton, is highly unlikely, because the plantar nerve is on the plantar side of the transverse metatarsal ligament and thus does not come into contact with the metatarsal heads.
A twin six pounder emplacement at Galtness Battery on the coast at Salt Ness protected the Wide Firth from German torpedo boats.
Noise can be picked up from microphone self-noise, preamp noise, wiring and interconnection noise, media noise, etc.
Thus, for example, although the preterite plural of a Germanic strong verb (see below) is derived from the zero grade, classes 4 and 5 have instead vowels representing the lengthened e-grade, as the stems of these verbs could not have sustained a zero grade in this position.
Prions are the causative agent of prion diseases known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) that are transmissible, fatal neurodegenerative diseases in humans and other animals.
Viceroys had to protect the Pacific coast from French contraband and English and Dutch pirates and privateers.
There is no privity of contract between the manufacturer and the consumer.
As a member of the superfamily Giraffoidea, the pronghorn's closest living relatives are the giraffe and okapi.
In 1991, the Henegar Center for the Arts opened its doors with a 475-seat proscenium style theater designed by Peter Feller.
Before Piper was investigated by psychical researchers she worked as a paid medium at a dollar for each sitting.
Godlove S. Orth is a fat, fluffy, pudgy-cheeked, good-humored old boy, with a volubility co-equal with the necessities of a politician, and a smile that is broad, bewitching, childlike, and bland, the Chicago Times reported in 1876. "
He spent 2005 and 2006 competing in NFL Europe as a punter for the Rhein Fire in Düsseldorf, Germany.
Rather slow-swimming, the pyjama shark spends most of the day resting in caves or crevices or amongst kelp, emerging at night to actively forage for food.
Pyruvate from glycolysis is converted by fermentation to lactate using the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase and the coenzyme NADH in lactate fermentation, or to acetaldehyde (with the enzyme pyruvate decarboxylase) and then to ethanol in alcoholic fermentation.
This species is found growing in a limited number of specific habitats: montane grassland around Barberton, and in KwaZulu-Natal it occurs in either sourveld or grassland in the Zululand mistbelt, on quartzite-derived substrates.
In "The Ladykillers" (1955) a gang of criminals rent a room from the elderly Mrs Wilberforce while they're pretending to be a string quintet looking for a space to practice.
In 2006, the government announced a campaign to combat prostitution and racketeers involved in organising the trade and human trafficking, following a commissioned police report entitled "Strategi for en styrket politimæssig indsats mod prostitutionens bagmænd."
There are three subgroups of "Vigna radiata," including one cultivated ("Vigna radiata subsp. radiata") and two wild ones ("Vigna radiata subsp. Sublobata" and "Vigna radiata subsp. glabra").
In subsequent weeks, Sting frequently rappelled from the rafters or came up through the ring to attack unsuspecting nWo members, came to the aid of wrestlers once subjected to his loyalty test as they battled the nWo, and employed decoy "Stings" to play mind games with the nWo during the closing segments of "Nitro."
Kalpanaswaram is performed in a Carnatic Concert for the main song, the singer chooses to perform the "Raga Alapana."
Meanwhile, Russell Edwards of Variety magazine wrote that "Paper Dolls" "mostly fails to transcend its ramshackle structure or penetrate the inner-lives of its subjects."
Though she was originally dubbed Ralphie IV, Vicky did not have the temperament to be the next Ralphie and was subsequently sold to buffalo rancher a short time later.
Plucking posts, surrounded by feathers and fur, may indicate that a raptor nesting site is nearby and these may be mainly used during the breeding season.
For a time prior, Irving promoted a theory that the Earth is flat but he later recanted.
Movement procedures varied with enemy locations, terrain etc., but generally recon elements from battalions or companies met with local guerrillas or operatives to gain intelligence, map out the terrain ahead, and obtain guides as needed.
In the Book of Chronicles, Samuel is described as the son of a Levite, rectifying this situation; however critical scholarship widely sees the Book of Chronicles as an attempt to redact the Book (s) of Samuel and of Kings to conform to later religious sensibilities.
Retroflex sounds generally have a duller, lower-pitched sound than other alveolar or postalveolar consonants, especially the grooved alveolar sibilants.
However, whereas powder cocaine dissolves in water, crack must be dissolved in an acidic solution such as lemon juice (containing citric acid) or white vinegar (containing acetic acid), a process that effectively reverses the original conversion of powder cocaine to crack.
He maintained his literary associations to the end of his life and in 1896 the literary revue "La Plume" published a special edition tribute volume devoted exclusively to Rops where many of the prominent authors and artists such as Puvis de Chavannes, Joris-Karl Huysmans, Octave Mirbeau, Josephin Peladan, and Jose-Maria De Heredia praised and celebrated his work.
The choreography is noted for the "llantucha" of "suri," clothing made of rhea feathers and used as protection against the elements while they travel to their patients, carrying "khapchos" ("male bags") that contain herbs, mixes, and talismans.
Cruse briefly wrote a column in a comic book review magazine, "Comics Scene," under the rhyming masthead "Loose Cruse."
28S ribosomal protein S30, mitochondrial is a protein that in humans is encoded by the "MRPS30" gene.
The barrel has a chrome-lined bore with 6 right-hand grooves and a 178 mm (1:7 in) rifling twist rate that is optimized for use with heavier SS109 5.56×45mm NATO rounds.
Rinderpest might also have increased dependence on horticulture among the Nuer.
The civil SA365 N variant of the Dauphin was used as the starting point for the project; the new rotorcraft was designed to perform utility, anti-tank, troop-transport, and maritime operations.
His violin art was characterized by a rotund and rich tone, glass-clear intonation and an idiomatic interpretation.
The face is mainly white except for the rufous forehead, white lores and a thin partial white eye-ring beneath the eye; and sometimes a rufous fore-supercilium.
Each man would drink some of the saguaro wine.
For his efforts in saving the city from great disaster Francis was awarded a massive silver pitcher and a salver by the City of Lowell.
A saying in Indonesian,, meaning "the durian falls and the sarong comes up," refers to this belief.
The suit's origins trace the simplified, sartorial standard established by the English king Charles II in the 17th century, following the example of his one-time host King Louis XIV's court at Versailles, who decreed that in the English Court men would wear a long coat, a waistcoat (then called a "petticoat"), a cravat (a precursor of the necktie), a wig, knee breeches (trousers), and a hat.
In Ukraine, "travlenky" - from "travlennia" (травлення), "etching" - are created by using an acid like vinegar or sauerkraut juice to etch back down to the original white surface of the egg.
The biology of "O. mercator" is nearly identical with "Oryzaephilus surinamensis" (the sawtooth grain beetle).
This meant that it was not subjected to the years of neglect and parts-stripping at Woodham Brothers scrapyard in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, South Wales which was the fate of many.
The cloud-forest screech owl is monotypic.
Ashurbanipal (685 - c. 627 BC), a king of the Neo-Assyrian Empire, was proud of his scribal education.
In the 1920s, Harry O. Wood and John A. Anderson developed the Wood-Anderson seismograph, one of the first practical instruments for recording seismic waves.
A piano sextet is a composition for piano and five other musical instruments, or a group of six musicians who perform such works.
When a text file with a shebang is used as if it is an executable in a Unix-like operating system, the program loader mechanism parses the rest of the file's initial line as an interpreter directive.
The Shire of Murchison covers a large area of the Murchison sub-region of the central part of Western Australia, northeast of Geraldton.
The conglomeratic sandstones and silty mudstones of the formation were deposited in an alluvial environment.
Fred Kent thought of Puccio as a wayward slacker who had no future (Puccio was a high school dropout) and felt the friendship with his son would destroy the future he was helping him build.
The system was carefully engineered, and was worked by individuals treading slats at the side of each wheel.
She found out that Libby is bad in math, she takes after her mother in that she is rude and snobby, and that her grandma is very close to her heart.
Soapstone carving is the predominant craft in Kisii.
The population of spermatogonia is maintained by "type Ad spermatogonia."
The above pure spinor is globally defined, and so the canonical bundle is trivial.
In some phyla of fungi, the sporangium plays a role in asexual reproduction, and may play an indirect role in sexual reproduction.
All stamens have an equal length.
Light stanchions on the grandstand and outfield concourse resemble Sulphur Dell's lights.
The first reference to the estuary stingray in scientific literature was probably a record by 19th-century English naturalist William Saville-Kent of a "Trygon pastinaca" feeding on oysters in a Queensland estuary.
The similarly coloured, but paler stipe is firm and stout, and is 2-6 cm high by 1-2 cm wide.
A stirrup jar is a type of pot associated with the culture of Mycenaean Greece.
1080, the brand name given to the synthetic form of sodium fluoroacetate, is used in New Zealand in efforts to control populations of possums, rats, stoat and rabbits, which are invasive species in the New Zealand environment.
Some authors include the free reactant terms in the sums by declaring "identity" (unit) constants for which the stoichiometric coefficients are 1 for the reactant concerned and zero for all other reactants.
The two Groups were in position, when a pre arranged strafing attack by the Royal Air Force commenced, this signalled an increasing in the rate of fire from Group one.
Crane's main achievement, according to Barczewski, is the restoration of Scott's humanity, "far more effectively than either Fiennes's stridency or Solomon's scientific data."
A short glass bottle used for beer is generally called a stubby, or originally a steinie.
This species is currently confined to alpine and subalpine zones (900-2500 m altitude) of the Southern Alps, the Tasman Mountains of Northwest Nelson, and the Victoria Range of Westland, all in the South Island; it is New Zealand's only truly alpine bird.
Cottolene was a brand of shortening made of beef suet and cottonseed oil produced in the United States from the late 1880s until the mid-20th century.
Examples include: "a chocolate sundae with ketchup on top," "a badger in a blender," "a crossword done in red ink," and "a penguin with a sunburn."
In the linguistic study of written languages, a syllabary is a set of written symbols that represent the syllables or (more frequently) moras which make up words.
The tabard of the Royal Arms are only worn at ceremonial occasions when in England together with the other heralds; the most recent occasion being at the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant in 2012.
Dikshitar was a master of tala and is the only composer to have kritis in all the seven basic talas of the Carnatic scheme.
Alternately, the Elsay Lake Trail takes one to the east of Mount Seymour, across several rockslides, then up a large talus slope (bear right to the low point of the ridge) to join the other trail on the south shoulder of the mountain.
Products that are used during menstruation may also be called menstrual hygiene products, including menstrual pads, tampons, pantyliners, menstrual cups, menstrual sponges and period panties.
Each proglottid is a little more than a self-sustainable, very lightly ingestive, self-contained reproductive unit since tapeworms are hermaphrodites.
In comparison to the next card in this suit, the Ten of Cups, it can be difficult for tarot novices to differentiate between these two cards as both symbolise emotional happiness.
When the plate of which it was a part subducted under another plate, the terrane failed to subduct, detached from its transporting plate, and accreted onto the overriding plate.
Soft shell terrapins with long necks have been noticed in some rivers.
Tetracyclines have a broad spectrum of antibiotic action.
In botany, the theca is related to plant's flower anatomy
According to crime writer Leo Katcher, Rothstein "transformed organized crime from a thuggish activity by hoodlums into a big business, run like a corporation, with himself at the top."
Karan is also reborn as Ajay, who is chased upon by tomboyish girlfriend Bindiya, and soon works for Govind - Sonia's father and Durjan's partner in his illegal arms trading business.
Toona, commonly known as redcedar, toon (also spelled tun) or toona, tooni (in India) is a genus in the mahogany family, Meliaceae, native from Afghanistan south to India, and east to North Korea, Papua New Guinea and eastern Australia.
Located just outside Osterville village, it is five bays wide, and has a centered entry with a five-pane transom window.
By definition, no vowel sound can be plotted outside of the IPA trapezium because its four corners represent the extreme points of articulation.
The trill (or shake, as it was known from the 16th until the early 20th century) is a musical ornament consisting of a rapid alternation between two adjacent notes, usually a semitone or tone apart, which can be identified with the context of the trill (compare mordent and tremolo).
This molecule was theorized in 2000 and is characterized by an electron density distribution that resembles the shape of a trilobite when plotted in cylindrical coordinates.
Push-pull output stages can use triodes for lowest Zout and best linearity, but often use tetrodes or pentodes which give greater gain and power.
The sixteenth century Italian historian Giammaria Barbieri was perhaps the first to suggest Arabian influences on the music of the troubadours.
Orwell suffered a tubercular haemorrhage in February 1946 but disguised his illness.
The top member consists of a fine-grained, typically reddish lava flow and another lithic tuff unit.
The disappearance of the monuments convinced many scholars that the Järsberg runestone had been erected on a tumulus and several interpretations of the inscription have made this assumption.
The Finchley Road Act was passed in 1826 and the new turnpike road was completed in 1835.
and historically the Baris have been devastated by slave traders, and forced by Belgians (especially from the Lado Enclave) into labor camps and used as porters to carry ivory tusks to the Atlantic coast.
The desert wheatear tends to perch on a bush, tussock or grass or other eminence and dart to the ground beneath to pounce on insects and other small invertebrates, though it can also catch insects in the air.
The god seems to be related to "Appaliunas," a tutelary god of Wilusa (Troy) in Asia Minor, but the word is not complete.
In 2018, Arthur Ashkin shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on "the optical tweezers and their application to biological systems" which was developed at Bell Labs in the 1980s.
In frogs and toads, the tympanum is a large external oval shape membrane made up of nonglandular skin
Benny led throughout the fight, using his left jab and right uppercut effectively and often, demonstrating his ability to adjust his punching combinations to the style of any given opponent as an opening occurred.
Carl was invited to Graz to work with Otto Loewi to study the effect of the vagus nerve on the heart (Loewi would receive the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1936 for this work).
There are a number of means, grammatical or lexical, for changing a verb's valency (the number of arguments it takes) and thereby effectively'converting' it to a different transitivity type.
Multi-layer varistor (MLV) devices provide electrostatic discharge protection to electronic circuits from low to medium energy transients in sensitive equipment operating at 0-120 volts dc.
The hormonal neuropeptides vasopressin and oxytocin play a key role in complex social behaviours in many mammals such as regulating attachment, social recognition, and aggression.
At each convention and in his speeches and in articles appearing in the public press he disclosed an intimate understanding of the big money masters of America and ruthlessly exposed many of their venal practices and their corrupt usage of the public funds in their own interest to the detriment of the people.
A number of writers advise against excessive verbosity in fiction.
The original gold dove went missing in the late 1990s, and a new dove was made from ivory with rays of gold vermeil studded with cubic zirconia.
The party's history and internal composition have been characterized by intense factionalism ever since its emergence in 1955, with its parliamentary members currently split among six factions, each of which vies for influence in the party and the government.
In weekly vignettes aired on "SmackDown!," both Nidia and her on-screen boyfriend Jamie Noble made trips to The Playboy Mansion to complain to Hugh Hefner over his choice.
A nerdy and wealthy boy in Gretel's class who is the son of Professor Exclamation, but has no interest in villainy.
In general, vinaigrette consists of 3 parts of oil to 1 part of vinegar whisked into an emulsion.
During the nearly four-decade history of the Audubon Quartet, there were multiple personnel changes, with the final membership including violinists Ellen Jewett and Akemi Takayama, violist Doris Lederer and cellist Clyde Shaw.
All the singles released prior to the album were rearranged and were added vocoder effects on Suzuki's voice.
The yellow paper wasp (Polistes versicolor) is known for its wagging movements as a form of communication within the colony; it can waggle with a frequency of 10.6±2.1 Hz (n=190).
Moldflow has two core products: Moldflow Adviser which provides manufacturability guidance and directional feedback for standard part and mold design, and Moldflow Insight which provides definitive results for flow, cooling, and warpage along with support for specialized molding processes.
The warty frogfish grows up to 15 cm (5.9 in) long.
An early Anglo-Saxon depiction survives on the Franks Casket (early 7th century, whalebone carving), the only Christian scene, which is combined with pagan and classical imagery.
The historical mystery or historical whodunit is a subgenre of two literary genres, historical fiction and mystery fiction.
The house at Bentley was bought by Gerald and Mary Askew in 1937 and following the Second World War the couple developed the house and garden and started a wildfowl collection.
Artists were often so struck by Monet's wispy brushstrokes that it was more than movement in his paintings, but a "striking vibration."
The aliquot sum of 35 is 13, this being the second composite number with such an aliquot sum; 
In Jung's theory, the anima makes up the totality of the unconscious feminine psychological qualities that a man possesses and the animus the masculine ones possessed by a woman.
Often highly destructive in nature, bummers became notorious among Southerners for looting and vandalism, and they did much to shatter the illusion that the Confederate Army was successfully defending its territory on all fronts.
As with other AM fungi, all Glomus species are thought to be obligate symbionts, dependent on their mycorrhizal association with plant roots to complete their life cycle
The function f(x) is called the integrand, the points a and b are called the limits (or bounds) of integration, and the integral is said to be over the interval [a, b], called the interval of integration.
Oven mitts are worn in the kitchen to protect the hands from hot objects.
Talc, or talcum, is a clay mineral, composed of hydrated magnesium silicate with the chemical formula Mg3Si4O10(OH)2. Talc in powdered form, often combined with corn starch, is used as baby powder.
Some critics found its music inauthentic and criticised the production's artificial effects.
Stracey was not the exception, and, after winning five more fights in a row (including a win over Ernie Lopez), he received his first world title shot: challenging WBC welterweight champion José Nápoles, in Nápoles' home-town of Mexico City, Mexico, on 6 December 1975.
The average size was brought down to about fifteen meters in "Gundam F91," with Tomino explaining that it would be easier for when the mobile suits were made into model kits, as they would be more easily posed with equally scaled human figures and easier to build dioramas around, the same reason he offered for another animation series he worked on, "Aura Battler Dunbine."
This is likely because of the high rates of vasovagal syncope in the young adult population.
In Early Middle Japanese, two new scripts emerged: the kana scripts hiragana and katakana.
Minimal trackage on the town's station site remains to serve the substantial cool stores located along Gore Street.
Potassium bromate acts more directly or with fewer chemical conversion steps than ascorbic acid.
Although it is an extremely small interaction, it has attracted a fair amount of attention in the scientific literature because it gives different energies for the enantiomers in chiral molecules.
After cessation of its electrical function for the Corporation's trolleybus system in October 1966, the City Lighting department continued to use the building as a maintenance centre.
Reflectopallium marmoratum, one of the leaf-veined slugs, is a species of air-breathing land slug, specifically a leaf-veined slug, a terrestrial gastropod mollusc in the family Athoracophoridae.
After "John Frederick's" death in 1634 Chapter and Estates regarded Frederick's (later Danish Crown Prince) dismissal as coadjutor by Ferdinand II by virtue of the "Edict of Restitution" illegitimate.
This is attended by more than 15,000 motorcyclists from all over Germany who have themselves and their motorcycles blessed to take part in an excursion through the whole region.
Fox Tales is a 1976 anthology of 16 animal-centered fairy tales from around the world that have been collected and retold by Ruth Manning-Sanders.
After leaving Paraíso, he lived in precarious conditions, having to resort to jobs such as pasting posters, or as a deckhand on Amazonian ships.
Brand lampoons the show by using overexaggerated street speak when describing how they are going to'pimp' up a person's CV when he is applying for a job.
Márquez suffered a knockdown in the third round that proved to be the difference, as the remaining rounds were scored dead even.
It is characterized as a chalky or sandy, fine-grained limestone, white to yellowish-cream in appearance, and micaceous (containing some white flakes of mica, or muscovite).
In 1954, following the "Brown v. Board of Education" order to desegregate public education, and the initiation of the G.I. Bill, the college transformed into a predominantly White institution.
The theater was used for performances of musicals, operettas and operas, and also hosted a number of famous musicians and rock bands, such as the Mothers of Invention, Duke Ellington, Stan Kenton, Dave Brubeck, The Who and Led Zeppelin.
The main features of this orthography are the representation of vowels by the letters, and the non-use of vocalization signs other than (to indicate gemination of consonants) and (to indicate labialization of velar and uvular consonants).
Back in Brussels, Vieuxtemps continued developing his violin technique on his own, his musicianship deepened by playing with the deeply musical mezzo-soprano Pauline Viardot, Malibran's sister.
The new bridge was named as a memorial to Willis W. Elkins, a United States Navy submarine crewman and long-time educator who was born about 100 yards from where the new bridge stands.
The eponym for the species name "anchietae" is José Alberto de Oliveira Anchieta, a Portuguese zoologist.
Even Michał Stefan Radziejowski, the Primate of Poland, sent a letter of rebuke to Brzostowski and annulled the excommunication of Sapieha due to political reasons, yet the Pope's nuncio supported the bishop and took Sapieha to a trial in the Warsaw's nunciature.
She began to write during a blizzard in February 1979 while housebound with her two small boys.
Following a recurrence of Rooney's metatarsal injury in August 2007, Swire was charged by Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson with finding out the cause of Rooney's injury.
This practice harks back to the days when many high performance cars were given one, small, single-venturi carburettor for each cylinder or pair of cylinders (i.e. Weber, SU carburettors), each one with their own small throttle plate inside.
The range takes its name from Mount Wrangell, which is one of the largest andesite shield volcanoes in the world, and also the only presently active volcano in the range.
James Holmes was the signalman at Manor House signal box.
In a 1973 study reported by the EPA, the waterborne administration of 180 ppm of calcium propionate was found to be slightly toxic to bluegill sunfish.
Later German occupation authorities and pro-Russian hierarchs of the Autonomous Church convinced Metropolitan Oleksiy to remove his signature.
Two differences from the klystron give it a lower cost and higher efficiency.
Sori occur on the sporophyte generation, the sporangia within producing haploid meiospores.
75 years later, in 1938, Peter (Walter Brennan), now a crotchety old man, still resides on Elmtree Farm and raises horses with his niece Sally (Loretta Young).
At 02:00, VC sappers attacked the district headquarters detonating satchel charges on the northern perimeter wire clearing the way for two battalions of the 273rd Regiment.
It is given by mouth, injection into a vein, injection into the bladder, through a nasogastric tube, or rectally.
Recreational or educational craft still use wind power, while some smaller craft use internal combustion engines to drive one or more propellers, or in the case of jet boats, an inboard water jet.
He is the son of the ITN newscaster Antony Brown.
Typical of most fish, Nile tilapia reproduce through mass spawning of a brood within a nest made by the male.
Many persons lacking stereopsis have (or have had) visible strabismus, which is known to have a potential socioeconomic impact on children and adults.
Among these is a culinary tradition that Habib Bourguiba defined as Western Arab, where bread or couscous are the staple foods, as opposed to Eastern Arab, where bread, crushed wheat or white rice are the staple foods.
This variability is systematic and occurs in response to the changing context in which the perceiver is situated.
Following World War Two he worked as a draughtsman for the State, then the Commonwealth Works Departments.
Partially filled d orbitals, either in the atom or ion, can hybridize differently depending on environment.
The baronetcy became extinct upon his death.
Brief accounts of Barbaʿshmin's episcopate are given in the "Ecclesiastical Chronicle" of the Jacobite writer Bar Hebraeus ("floruit" 1280) and in the ecclesiastical histories of the Nestorian writers Mari (twelfth-century), ʿAmr (fourteenth-century) and Sliba (fourteenth-century).
He pitched 1/3 inning and took the loss when Narron intentionally walked the strikeout prone Ryan Howard to load the bases with nobody out to move the winning run to third base.
Haji Khel features a humid continental climate with mediterranean precipitation patterns (Köppen: "Dsa").
Intermedia is an art theory term coined in the mid-1960s by Fluxus artist Dick Higgins to describe the strategies of interdisciplinarity that occur within artworks existing between artistic genres
Familial dysautonomia (FD), also known as Riley-Day syndrome, is a rare, progressive, recessive genetic disorder of the autonomic nervous system that affects the development and survival of sensory, sympathetic, and some parasympathetic neurons in the autonomic and sensory nervous system.
Inducing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in animals as a model for multiple sclerosis (MS) has targeted some glutamate receptors as a pathway for potential therapeutic applications.
Monomeric streptavidin is a recombinant form of streptavidin with mutations to break the tetramer into a monomer and to enhance the solubility of the resultant isolated subunit.
Its conceit is that mythic beings exist in the modern world of the Image Universe.
In 1716, Vienna temporarily forbade settlement by Hungarians and Jews in the area, while large numbers of German speakers were settled in the region from Bavaria and southern areas, in order to repopulate it and develop agriculture.
Segovia ascribed the Sonata's prelude to the lutenist and Bach contemporary S. L. Weiss.
Ruben Mendoza, an archeologist of Mexican Mestizo and Native Yaqui descent who has extensively excavated missions in California, stated during a March 2015 interview with the "Los Angeles Times" that "Serra endured great hardships to evangelize Native Californians.
Fourteen arches spanning 624 feet carried the Enlarged Erie Canal and towpath across the Schoharie Creek from 1845 until 1916.
The Pacific temperate rain forest subspecies "suckleyi"'s males are almost uniformly black on the upperside and have heavy black blotches on the belly, whereas those of the lightest subspecies, "pallidus," have little non-dilute melanin altogether, with grey upperside and reddish underside pattern.
However, archaeological evidence is lacking for the existence of such structures within Chanctonbury Ring, which would have been in an extremely exposed and windswept spot.
A pneumonectomy (or pneumectomy) is a surgical procedure to remove a lung first successfully done in 1933 by Dr. Evarts Graham.
Another stuntman suffered a concussion in the same incident.
Eucalyptus flowers produce a great abundance of nectar, providing food for many pollinators including insects, birds, bats and possums.
Molecular phylogenetic analysis indicates that "E. melicicola" is an interspecific hybrid, and that its closest relatives are the teleomorphic (sexual) species, "Epichloë festucae," and the anamorphic (asexual) species, "Epichloë aotearoae."
The active ingredients that "reduce plaque and demonstrate effective reduction of gingival inflammation over a period of time" are triclosan, chlorhexidine digluconate, and a combination of thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, and methyl salicylate.
The original three skulls (all assigned to different species) were poorly known, and the genus had been considered a junior synonym of "Metriorhynchus," "Geosaurus" or "Dakosaurus" by different palaeontologists in the past.
A nanoparticle or ultrafine particle is usually defined as a particle of matter that is between 1 and 100 nanometres (nm) in diameter.
Robert Chapman, a lexicographer, canvassed fellow lexicographers at Funk & Wagnalls, who had used the new edition daily for three years.
Public unease grew, and soon hundreds of subscribers were demanding their money back - slipshod record-keeping meant that some were repaid several times over.
Following the game, at least two Coronado High School students hurled tortillas at members of their predominantly Latino opponents.
The bivalve shell is composed of two calcareous valves.
For example, the Z-module Q is not simple, but its endomorphism ring is isomorphic to the field Q.
Wylie was also active in writing detective and mystery novelettes for a variety of magazines.
Twelve 72 ft long CMBs were ordered in early 1918 for minelaying (7 magnetic mines) or torpedo work (6 torpedoes).
Nonetheless, purebred Arabians today do not carry genes for pinto or Leopard complex ("Appaloosa") spotting patterns, except for sabino.
The 1650 explosion, which occurred when the accumulating cone reached the surface, sent pyroclastic flows across the sea surface to the shores and slopes of Santorini, where about seventy people and many animals died.
In the European Union it is permitted for the production of bulk table wines and vermouth as well as raisins.
Malleson was born in Avondale Road, South Croydon, Surrey, England, the son of Edmund Taylor Malleson (1859-1909), a manufacturing chemist, and Myrrha Bithynia Frances Borrell (1863-1931), a descendant of the numismatist Henry Perigal Borrell and the inventor Francis Maceroni.
Though they are clearly attracted to each other, Tom is involved with a clingy but beautiful woman named Chris.
His score for the serial has been described as "startling in its range of obtrusive electronic timbres and relative melodic paucity," "mixed music and sound effects" and "presented uncomfortable sounds to a substantial early evening audience on Saturdays in a way not duplicated in Britain before or since."
The mycobacterial glyoxylate cycle is also being targeted for potential treatments of tuberculosis.
The hulks would then be forwarded to Sims-PMI for scrapping at their Dunedin premises.
Robert Heywood was the uncle of Peter Heywood, who was the midshipman on HMS "Bounty."
The motet is laid out for eight choirs of five voices (soprano, alto, tenor, baritone and bass).
The two-story travertine marble building is surrounded by a fountain and a long reflecting pool, and the surrounding landscaped grounds span 11.3 acres.
According to the council park history for the site, the seat was destroyed (possibly by the 1974 flood) and the plaque re-erected on the large Mt. Coot-tha bluestone boulder, one week before Anzac Day, 1974.
As a tribute to this version of the character, his final formal'appearance' was in "Secret Origins" (vol. 2) #6 (September 1986) in the story "Secret Origins Starring the Golden Age Batman" by writer Roy Thomas and artists Marshall Rogers and Terry Austin, a retelling of the Earth-Two Batman's origin.
Fergus, having his principal seat on Palace Isle, Loch Fergus, erected the "Prioratus Sanctae Mariae de Trayl" (St. Mary's Isle Priory) in penitence for rebellion against King David I of Scotland.
It is a semi-autobiographical concept album, in which the overarching plot follows the protagonist's descent into madness in his own inner solipsistic world through a metaphorical "downward spiral," dealing with religion, dehumanization, violence, disease, society, drugs, sex, and finally, suicide.
The diacritic may also be included on the wrong vowel, as in the word "kẽka," where it is the second syllable that actually receives the nasalization.
Imagined communities can be seen as a form of social constructionism on par with Edward Said's concept of imagined geographies.
Yarby realize that Fudge is rambunctious and remark on inappropriate deportment, irking Peter because he felt he was being respectful to adults.
The free carboxyl groups interact with cations to form insoluble pectic acid divalent metal ion complexes.
There is good access to the lakeshore via the gravel road which runs around the almost all of the eastern and western shorelines.
A major focus in the early years of the investigation was bioweapons expert Steven Hatfill, who was eventually exonerated.
While Emile Dottrens described it as subspecies of the common whitefish "Coregonus lavaretus" in 1958, other experts like Maurice Kottelat regarded it as a full species endemic to Lake Geneva.
It has cylindric inflorescences topped by a pine apple-like tuft of pinkish-brownish, smaller and more or less horizontal leaves.
Orphaned at a young age, and raised by a nihilist uncle, he cares little for others, with the possible exception of his younger sister, Eileen.
Pulvinar movement is caused by changes in turgor pressure leading to a contraction or expansion of the parenchyma tissue.
ELB-139 (LS-191,811) is an anxiolytic drug with a novel chemical structure, which is used in scientific research.
In the latter publication, King revealed that the story was inspired by issues of moral philosophy in his own life, back when he was a struggling student and would occasionally shoplift or write other students' essays (an academic offence) to make ends meet.
These sites were used as tool workshops, where stone from nearby quarry sites was processed into finished objects, typically bifacial tool blades.
In a microwave frequency mixer, one-half of the two-way Doppler shift from the transponded ground maser signal was subtracted from the Doppler shift of the space maser.
In 1902, he was dismissed as Protocol Secretary, due to his strict legalist views, and his opposition to legislation on compulsory military service.
A Proton gradient moves the ions into the vacuole by proton-sodium antiporter or the proton-calcium antiporter.
Fox News said the Farmers' Market was one of the reasons why Madison is a top foodie paradise.
It has been suggested that psychopathy is associated with "instrumental aggression," also known as predatory, proactive, or "cold blooded" aggression, a form of aggression characterized by reduced emotion and conducted with a goal differing from but facilitated by the commission of harm.
The evolutionary processes driving the rapid spread of lactase persistence in some populations are not known.
The Academy of the Asturian Language has sponsored linguistic and sociolinguistic research, which encompasses the non-Asturian dialects of Asturian-Leonese.
Various classification schemes have been proposed for the cataclastic rocks, but changes in understanding of the processes involved in their formation and better knowledge of the variety of such rocks has made a simple classification difficult, particularly where distinctions cannot be made in hand specimens.
This new medium has changed the way the polis interacts with government.
She has a dramatic contralto voice and has a vocal range of three octaves.
Since routine maintenance is much simplified, passive hydroponics can reduce the labor required to maintain a large collection of plants.
Burcham's flight of 4 h 5 min 22 s flying in circles over Long Beach, California that December was not broken until July 24, 1991 when U.S. airshow pilot Joann Osterud set a new world's record of 4 h 38 min 10 s.
The artist experimented with a variety of positions and props, finally settling on the pose with an overflowing tray of grapes and a glowing sunburst in the background.
Although Wang's rationalistic philosophy and criticism of so-called New Text Confucianism were largely ignored during his lifetime, the prominent official and later scholar Cai Yong (132-192) wrote of his admiration for Wang's written works.
Living Word Fellowship (LWF) was a millenarian Pentecostal Christian group based in the San Francisco Bay area, founded in 1970 by Bobbi Morris.
Polarizations result from ohmic resistance of oxygen ions conducting through the electrolyte (iRΩ), electrochemical activation barriers at the anode and cathode, and finally concentration polarizations due to inability of gases to diffuse at high rates through the porous anode and cathode (shown as ηA for the anode and ηC for cathode).
The visual style makes everyone look fresh from the Wax Museum, and all the movie lacks is a lot of day-old gardenias and lilies and roses in the lobby, filling the place with a cloying sweet smell.
Joe Klein mocked one of Perot's campaign gaffes and said he was not a sufficiently substantial figure.
Recent phylogenetic studies have demonstrated that the genus "Aloe" is polyphyletic and that this unusual species is not in fact an aloe, but is more closely related to "Astroloba" and to the four "Robustipedunculares" species of "Haworthia."
It has clinical and histologic manifestations similar to those of osteoid osteoma; therefore, some consider the two tumors to be variants of the same disease, with osteoblastoma representing a giant osteoid osteoma.
These people experienced "mild delusions or hallucinatory behavior," including successful technicians, and medical, legal, and business professionals.
The scoria that was quarried from Mount Elephant was used to make many of the roads and buildings in and around the town of Derrinallum.
In 2011, the antechamber to Kallara B was opened by the Observers appointed by the Supreme Court of India.
As well as paintings and drawings, he produced designs for stained glass, furniture, ceramics, glass tableware, mosaics, buildings and interiors, was a lithographer and woodcutter and was a book illustrator.
Chondromyxoid fibromas can share characteristics with chondroblastomas with regards to histologic and radiographic findings.
The new gymnasium provides excellent opportunities for sports and the shooting gallery of Põlva has been the hothouse of top sportsmen who hit targets at various competitions.
During the 18th and 19th centuries, pedestrianism (walking) was a popular spectator sport just as equestrianism still is in places such as the United Kingdom and the United States.
Owing to its durability, open weave, naturally non-shiny refraction and fuzzy texture, hessian is often used in the fabrication of ghillie suits for 3D camouflage.
The goal of the programme was to develop a thermobaric bomb, the BEAC ("Bomba Explosiva de Aire-Combustible").
The regulating system that determines the homeostatic state consists of many cooperating mechanisms acting simultaneously or successively.
Needlefish (family Belonidae) or long toms are piscivorous fishes primarily associated with very shallow marine habitats or the surface of the open sea.
Smith achieved a DPhil in Psychology from the University of Oxford and then held lectureships at Keele and Sheffield Universities.
The eight-bladed scimitar propellers are made from a woven composite material.
The reference range for prothrombin time depends on the analytical method used, but is usually around 12-13 seconds (results should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test), and the INR in absence of anticoagulation therapy is 0.8-1.2.
The goal of all student work was authentic, summative assessment of individual and group achievement, and boys regularly reported on their learning to audiences of their peers, as well as experts in specific fields outside the school.
Dombrosio is then visited by a vision of a future with his little family several years later, after Sherry has presumably given birth to a malformed baby boy due to the possible teratogenic properties of the local water supply.
Soon after, as the federalists were unable to advance further following the military victory but strategical mistake at the siege of Lapa, they were forced to release Curitiba and hold their position back in Lapa, ultimatelly further retreating to Rio Grande do Sul, abbandoning Curitiba, which was taken back by the republican forces.
This action is performed by triceps brachii with a negligible assistance from anconeus.
Frank was the first son of Canon William Buckland, a noted geologist and palaeontologist, and Mary, a fossil collector, palaeontologist and illustrator.
Al was a head linesman with the Pacific Coast Athletic Association and Mike Pereira credits his father with teaching him football.
English historian John Andrew Doyle wrote of Vane that he had acquired "a more dazzling reputation than has been granted to the lofty public spirit and statesmanlike foresight of Winthrop."
The innate immune system is capable of phagocytic activity by 28 to 30 h postfertilization (hpf) while adaptive immunity is not functionally mature until at least 4 weeks postfertilization.
She became interested in transcendentalism through this social group and after hearing Ralph Waldo Emerson lecture in Boston, Massachusetts and in Providence.
There is some debate over whether this is actually a different marque of automobile produced by the company or just a Jackson model.
Fish otoliths accrete layers of calcium carbonate and gelatinous matrix throughout their lives.
Some parrotfish species, including the queen parrotfish ("Scarus vetula"), secrete a mucus cocoon, particularly at night.
This machine can weigh 75-120 tonnes typically and comprises a main body, housing the electrical functions, the tractive motive units to move the shearer along the coalface and pumping units (to power both hydraulic and water functions).
The moonwalk or backslide is a dance move in which the performer glides backwards but their body actions suggest forward motion.
In 1921, California historian Charles E. Chapman theorized that Ximénez named the new land "California" but the name was not accepted by Cortés because Ximénez was a mutineer who killed Becerra, a kinsman of Cortés.
In addition, many surnames, toponyms and set expressions still exhibit fossilised inflected forms of the article and noun.
Thus, GABA is considered the major excitatory neurotransmitter in many regions of the brain before the maturation of glutamatergic synapses.
The existence of the epiphyte has been kept secret by the Castakas for many generations, until its revelation to save the life of Othon von Salza, the son-in-law of Baron Berard.
Solipsism is the philosophical idea that only one's own mind is sure to exist.
The velodrome was designed by FaulknerBrowns Architects and has garnered a reputation for speed since its opening.
Alton Brown is a fan of the condiment, and he uses it in okra stew and his apple-pie recipe on an episode of the TV cooking show "Good Eats."
Anatolii Al'bertovich Shatkin, in 1961, injected trachoma virus into the conjunctival sac of his eye and rapidly developed trachoma.
The benzodiazepine class of drugs also interact with peripheral benzodiazepine receptors.
On the south side of the palace, the formal Luxembourg Garden presents a green parterre of gravel and lawn populated with statues and large basins of water where children sail model boats.
The traditional souk (bazaar, marketplace) has small shops and stalls selling traditional handiwork such as colorful porcelain utensils, textiles and clothing, leatherware, and various souvenirs.
They deployed the EASEP, which included a passive seismic experiment package used to measure moonquakes and a retroreflector array used for the lunar laser ranging experiment.
The band initially consisted of Davis on trumpet, Mulligan on baritone saxophone, trombonist Mike Zwerin, alto saxophonist Lee Konitz, Junior Collins on French horn, tubist Bill Barber, pianist John Lewis, bassist Al McKibbon and drummer Max Roach.
Olsen is a licensed minister and presided over the nuptials of his then-teammate, Nick Rimando, in 2005.
The majority of myoclonus dystonia cases are the result of a mutation in the epsilon sarcoglycan gene (SGCE).
Despite the harshness that brought a premature end to his life, his knight-errantry and crusading zeal led him to be regarded as the epitome of chivalry.
Ghrelin levels in the plasma of obese individuals are lower than those in leaner individuals, suggesting that ghrelin does not contribute to obesity, except in the cases of Prader-Willi syndrome-induced obesity, where high ghrelin levels are correlated with increased food intake.
By the time the Battle of Mengo Hill resulted in the palace being overrun, the kabaka had taken advantage of a cloudburst to exit over the rear wall.
Bursatella leachii, whose common name is the ragged sea hare or shaggy sea hare, is a species of large sea slug: a marine gastropod mollusk in the sea hare family Aplysiidae.
CSU Pueblo features a cheerleading squad and dance team, club baseball, racquetball, climbing, rugby, and men's soccer.
Indole-3-carbinol can shift estrogen metabolism towards less estrogenic metabolites.
During late 1990s the islanders constructed a small harbor for loading and unloading of goods and to facilitate easy transportation.
Scottish empiricist David Hume made a similar argument, that belief in objective moral truths is unwarranted and to discuss them is meaningless.
In the upper Agly Valley, varietal "terroir" driven examples are starting to be produced. 
The Goodyear welt process is a machine-based alternative to the traditional hand-welted method (c. 1500) for the manufacture of men's shoes, allowing them to be resoled repeatedly.
The Bewick's wren has an average length of 5.1 inches (13 cm) an average weight of 0.3 to 0.4 ounces (8 -12 g), and a wingspan of 18 cm.
It was adopted as the Polish national roundel on 1 December 1918.
He also notes a Douala-based pidgin named "Jo."
The decreased light intensity, replicates the typical lighting experienced at night time that stimulate the planktonic organisms to migrate.
On the dry heathland by the rocks, on shallow soil with sand, grows a scattering of oak, rowan and silver birch, although its main cover is wavy hair-grass, bilberry, bell heather and ling, with bracken under the rock stacks.
The subspecific names "barbouri" and "gaigeae" are in honor of American herpetologists Thomas Barbour and Helen Beulah Thompson Gaige, respectively.
The only specific fungus identified from shellbark hickory roots is an ectotrophic mycorrhiza," Laccaria ochropurpurea."
This was recorded in a hieroglyphic text painted onto the wall of the Naj Tunich cave.
The acromion forms the summit of the shoulder, and is a large, somewhat triangular or oblong process, flattened from behind forward, projecting at first laterally, and then curving forward and upward, so as to overhang the glenoid cavity.
The gneiss formed from these sediments created the marble, metaconglomerate, phyllite, quartzite, schist, and slate found in the Blue Ridge and Piedmont areas.
Remaining at Rome twelve days he pulled down everything that in ancient times had been made of metal for the ornament of the city, to such an extent that he even stripped off the roof of the church [of the blessed Mary], which at one time was called the Pantheon, and had been founded in honour of all the gods and was now by the consent of the former rulers the place of all the martyrs; and he took away from there the bronze tiles and sent them with all the other ornaments to Constantinople.
In July 2014, the station was taken dark for financial reasons, likely due to fines from the FCC resulting from the station's lack of updates to both its public file and educational and informational programming reporting file, the latter of which had not had the public file components updated for 31⁄2 years; this resulted in a fine total of $20,000, with an appeal of the amount for financial purposes denied as the FCC determined that WMKE-CA and Chicago sister station WOCK-CD were under the same ownership and had the financial ability to pay the fine.
In the United Kingdom the Law Reform Committee recommended replacing the rule (together with other highly technical common law rules, such as the rule in "Re Atkinson" and the rule in "Allhusen v Whittell") with a general statutory duty to hold a fair balance between the tenant for life and the remainderman, with an express power to convert income into capital and vice versa, and a duty to convert and apportion to the extent necessary to maintain an even hand and in a manner consistent with the whole investment policy of the reversionary trust fund.
The resulting schedule may look different depending on the way the four-day week is implemented: in some variants Friday becomes the permanent non-working day, giving employees three consecutive days off over the weekend; some workplaces split the day off among the staff, with half taking Monday off and the other half taking Friday off; sometimes the day off is added in the middle of the week such as a Wednesday, allowing for a mid-week break; and, in some cases the day off changes from week to week, depending on the company's current goals and workload.
Prior to becoming Chilean territory, Iquique was home to some of the greatest Peruvian heroes, namely Alfonso Ugarte (who was elected mayor in 1876), Ramon Zavala, a rich saltpetre entrepreneur; Guillermo Billinghurst, later President of Peru (who after being overthrown in 1914 came to Iquique - then already under Chilean rule - to live out his last years), and Ramon Castilla, three times president of Peru, who was born in San Lorenzo de Tarapacá and died in the Desert of Tiviliche, Tarapacá, who lived in Iquique during his mandate as Governor of Tarapacá in 1825.
While no documentary evidence connects Oxford (or any alternative author) to the plays of Shakespeare, Oxfordian writers, including Mark Anderson and Charlton Ogburn, say that connection is made by considerable circumstantial evidence inferred from Oxford's connections to the Elizabethan theatre and poetry scene; the participation of his family in the printing and publication of the First Folio; his relationship with the Earl of Southampton (believed by most Shakespeare scholars to have been Shakespeare's patron); as well as a number of specific incidents and circumstances of Oxford's life that Oxfordians say are depicted in the plays themselves.
Although the majority of the songs contained upon "Positive Touch" were inspired by the same subjects as the songs upon the two previous albums released by the band at this stage in their career (both of which generally contained lyrical matter concerning teenage angst), "Positive Touch" was the first and only album released by the Undertones to contain songs which drew lyrical inspiration from the Troubles relating to the political and social background in which the members of the band had been born and raised, although songs containing lyrical references to the Troubles were somewhat oblique.
One of the first acts of the newly formed Society was the publication of a pamphlet describing the objectives of the Society, which were to promote a higher standard of efficiency in the science of accounting and the art of bookkeeping; to bring together those interested directly or indirectly in matters of accounting, to promote the exchange of ideas, and to encourage mutual assistance between members; to encourage the adoption of improved methods and to secure uniformity in matters of accounting; and to promote confidence between the public accountant, the bookkeeper, and the man of business.
The project is being built in three distinct sections: "Area 1," which will upgrade and extend the city's existing Pinkie Road into a full connection between Highway 1 and Highway 11 in the west of the city; "Area 2," which will construct a new route south of the city between Highway 1 and Highway 33; and "Area 3," which will complete the connection from Highway 33 back to Highway 1 in the east of the city adjacent to Tower Road, as well as further upgrades to the existing route of Highway 1 easterly to Highway 46.
Furthermore, the notion of taxation being inherently unjust, and market transactions being inherently just, depends on the notion that they actually are as involuntary or voluntary as they appear: in a nation that permits free emigration of its citizens, taxation is not entirely involuntary, while market transactions for necessary goods and services can hardly be said to be entirely voluntary, and if the wealthy, or organized labor, or those in control of de facto industry standards are able to exert undue influence on such a market, they frequently skew those transactions to favor their own interests.
Already at this time, with the arrival of more Italian immigrants to supply the lack of manpower, the culture of the grape was introduced in the then town of Rocinha like main agricultural product, since the price of the coffee of the region suffered a sensible decrease with the expansion of the production in the cities of the center-west of the state of São Paulo and the construction of the Companhia Mogiana railroad, which made easy connection between the north of the state and the port of Santos, rendering obsolete coffee production of the small rock.
The massacres of La Glacière that took place during 16-17 October 1791 in the "Tour de la Glacière" of the Palais des Papes at Avignon, then recently united to France, were an isolated and early example of violence in the opening phase of the French Revolution; the massacres are interpreted by French historians not as presaging the September massacres of 1792 and the Reign of Terror but as a last episode in the struggle between partisans and advocates of the reunion of the papal enclave of Avignon and the Comtat Venaissin with the state of France.
When Maria returned to the present day and arrived at the Christmas party at Holby City Hospital to which she had been preparing to go before the Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and Future had shown up, she made her peace with Donna (with whom she had argued earlier in the day), telling her that she was the best mate she had ever had, and told Sam that she wouldn't be going to live in New York with him and Kieron - thus ensuring that the events of 2011 that she had seen would never happen.
The breakdown in monetary policy is particularly damaging because it often occurs in financial crises such as the Great Depression and the Financial crisis of 2007-2010: in the midst of a crisis, banks will be more cautious about lending money due to higher risk of default, and borrowers will be more cautious about borrowing money because of lack of investment and speculation opportunities: if demand is dropping, new investment is unlikely to be profitable, and if asset prices are dropping (following the bursting of a speculative bubble), speculation on rising asset prices is unlikely to prove profitable.
Ion is available throughout most of the United States through its group of 44 owned-and-operated stations and 20 network affiliates, as well as through distribution on pay-TV providers and streaming services; since 2014, the network has also increased affiliate distribution in several markets through the digital subchannels of local television stations owned by companies such as Gray Television and Nexstar Media Group where the network is unable to maintain a main channel affiliation with or own a standalone station, for the same purpose as the distribution of Ion's main network feed via pay-TV providers and streaming services.
The ethics committee, according to Directive 2001/20/EC, is an independent body in a member state of the European Union, consisting of healthcare professionals and non-medical members, whose responsibility is to protect the rights, safety and well being of human subjects involved in a clinical trial and to provide public assurance of that protection, by, among other things, expressing an opinion on the clinical trial protocol, the suitability of the investigators involved in the trial and the adequacy of facilities, and on the methods and documents to be used to inform trial subjects and obtain their informed consent.
A data breach may include incidents such as theft or loss of digital media such as computer tapes, hard drives, or laptop computers with unencrypted information, posting such information on the World Wide Web without proper information security precautions, transfer of such information to a system which is not completely open but is not appropriately or formally accredited for security, such as unencrypted e-mail, or transfer of such information to the information systems of a possibly hostile agency, such as a competing corporation or a foreign nation, where it may be exposed to more intensive decryption techniques.
In Beckham's eponymous autobiography in 2013, he revealed that on the day after the defeat to Argentina in the 1998 World Cup, when he felt all alone and distraught back at the team hotel, it was McManaman (along with Terry Byrne and the England team's masseur, Steve Slattery), who stayed behind to accompany him and play snooker with him late into the night; in order to help take his mind off the fallout of that defeat (having been made the culprit- in getting sent off during that match - by some sections of the media and fans).
In late March 1987, Fries started its own home video division, Fries Home Video, to be headed by former International Video Entertainment executive Len Levy, as executive vice president and CEO, and the company previously had an agreement in 1986 with home video firm Prism Entertainment to handle home video rights to Fries' titles, and would sign a deal to acquire the video distribution rights of Monterey Home Video from IVE, and the long-term strategy could make and broaden the whole entire Fries Home Video label into a one-stop shopping organization that can acquire and exploit outside product.
According to a 2000 media study done by Livingston and Bovill of the London School of Economics and Political Science, almost all (99%) of 6-17 year olds watch television in their leisure time, over four in every five watch videos (81%), two-thirds play computer games (64%), almost nine in ten (86%) listen to music (often while doing something else), just over half (57%) read books that are not for school, a third (36%) use a personal computer (PC) not for games in their leisure time, and one in five (19%) personally use the Internet somewhere (mostly in school).
In 2012, the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security advised all banks to consider the PC systems of their users being infected by malware by default and therefore use security processes where the user can cross-check the transaction data against manipulations like for example (provided the security of the mobile phone holds up) SMS TAN where the transaction data is sent along with the TAN number or standalone smartcard readers with an own screen including the transaction data into the TAN generation process while displaying it beforehand to the user (see chipTAN) to counter man-in-the-middle attacks.
It was the grandest sight I ever experienced, to look out of the lighthouse on a very stormy day, and see oneself hanging, as it were, over the ocean, surrounded on three sides by a fearful chasm in which the air was so thickly crowded with birds as to produce the appearance of a heavy snowstorm, whilst the cries of these myriads, mingled with the roar of the ocean and the howling of the tremendous gusts of wind coming up from below as if forced through a blast pipe, made it almost impossible to hear a person speak.
For a long time the sky had been overcast with multitudes and endless hurrying processions of wild-looking clouds - torn, wind-chased fugitives, of every mournful shade of color, from palest gray to slatey-black; and storms of rain had been frequent, impetuous, and suddenly intermitted, or passing away phantom-like towards the misty hills, there to lose themselves among other phantoms, ever wandering sorrowfully in that vast, shadowy borderland where earth and heaven mingled; and gusts of wind which, as they roared by over a thousand straining trees and passed off with hoarse, volleying sounds, seemed to mimic the echoing thunder.
The term has become common in Latin America in particular in societies where the polarization between rich and poor has become pronounced and has been identified in public policy as a problem that needs to be overcome, such as in Venezuela where the supporters of Hugo Chavez identify social apartheid as a reality which the wealthy try to maintain and Brazil, where the term was coined to describe a situation where wealthy neighbourhoods are protected from the general population by walls, electric barbed wire and private security guards and where inhabitants of the poor slums are subjected to violence.
Nevertheless, South Africa is falling behind other emerging markets, such as India and China, owing to several factors: the country is relatively small, without the advantage of a huge domestic customer base; it has had for decades an unusually low rate of saving and investment, partly because of low disposable income; an inadequate education system results in an acute shortage of skilled manpower; a strong and volatile currency deters investors and makes its exports less competitive; the infrastructure, though far better than in the rest of Africa, suffers from severe bottlenecks, including scheduled power shortages, and urgently needs upgrading.
In the early 1990s, with the removal of Margaret Thatcher from the United Kingdom's Prime Ministerial office by the Tories, and their enactment into law of the Maastricht Treaty, Goldsmith, who up until that time had retained close links with the Conservative Party, came to the conclusion that it was no longer a serious political vehicle to oppose the European Union's advancing power, and that opposition would have to be created within the party political system beyond its current order of the Conservative, Labour and Liberal Democrats parties, all of which supported the United Kingdom's incorporation into the European Union.
While proponents of judicial harm claim this improves the desirable deterrent effect of detention (this despite the facts first-time offenders are often entirely unaware of prison conditions, many crimes are not premeditated or carried out with deliberative thought that considers being caught and punished), it does form a controversial appendage of a body of theory known as retribution; its perception as cruelty rather than justice may endanger both internal security and prospects for rehabilitation and goes against the humane ideal of most human rights advocates, possibly qualifying legally as inhumane punishment, an infringement on human rights under the UN rules.
In 2004, she refused to accept Order of Sciences and Arts, "The award came too late, I'm not placed on the shelf for them to pick me whenever they want, there's only one Hind Rostom in the middle east, and let's consider that the number of my generation star actresses isn't that big enough to ignore us, and also it's not appropriate to honor me after years of honoring people who are less than me, another point is that I also refuse to honor me before Shadia, she'd deserved it and she was a star longtime before me," Rostom commented.
On the most basic level, electronegativity is determined by factors like the nuclear charge (the more protons an atom has, the more "pull" it will have on electrons) and the number and location of other electrons in the atomic shells (the more electrons an atom has, the farther from the nucleus the valence electrons will be, and as a result, the less positive charge they will experience - both because of their increased distance from the nucleus and because the other electrons in the lower energy core orbitals will act to shield the valence electrons from the positively charged nucleus).
Under the rules adopted in 1998, under which both Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard were respectively elected in 2001 and 2003, a leadership contest can be initiated either by the incumbent leader resigning or by the Parliamentary Party passing a vote of no confidence in the present leader, the latter being called upon a request by 15% of the Parliamentary Party to the Chairman of the 1922 Committee, who serves "ex officio" as the returning officer of a leadership election; if a vote of no confidence is passed, a leadership election is called, with the incumbent barred from standing.
An interdisciplinary team of researchers from the University of Warsaw investigated bilingual swearing, and how it is easier to swear in a foreign language, finding that bilinguals strengthen the offensiveness of profanities when they switch into their second language, but soften it when they switch into their first tongue, doing both statistically significantly only in the case of ethnophaulisms (ethnic slurs), leading the scientists to the conclusion that switching into the second language exempts bilinguals from the social norms and constraints (whether own or socially imposed) such as political correctness, and makes them more prone to swearing and offending others.
The National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy, approved by the Council of Cities, has identified six steps to improve service coverage and efficiency by encouraging a more competitive and better regulated environment: (1) the institutional separation of service providers and service regulators: (2) promotion of different decentralized alternatives for service provision; (3) promotion of social participation in service regulation and control; (4) use of low-cost technologies; (5) development of financially sustainable pricing schemes which include subsidies for low-income families where required to assure universal access to basic services; and (6) greater cooperation between federal and local authorities and civil society.
The term "Tzion" came to designate the area of Davidic Jerusalem where the fortress stood, and was used as well as synecdoche for the entire city of Jerusalem; and later, when Solomon's Temple was built on the adjacent Mount Moriah (which, as a result, came to be known as the Temple Mount) the meanings of the term "Tzion" were further extended by synecdoche to the additional meanings of the Temple itself, the hill upon which the Temple stood, the entire city of Jerusalem, the entire biblical Land of Israel, and "the World to Come," the Jewish understanding of the afterlife.
The first of several 999 calls were made to the London Fire Brigade at 03:32 and received by the local fire station, A21, Paddington, who were ordered to the scene along with neighbouring A22, Manchester Square and G26 Belsize, bringing the first attendance of four pumping appliances (two were pumps - P, two were pump escapes - PE, carrying the heavy but stable 50 foot (15m) wheeled escape ladders), a 100 ft (30m) turntable ladder - TL (aerial ladder) and an emergency tender - ET (for the breathing apparatus (BA) sets carried; BA wearing was then still a specialist skill).
Set in a fictitious future timeline during the 25th century AD in a distant part of the Milky Way galaxy known as the Koprulu Sector, the game revolves around three intelligent species fighting for dominance: the Terrans are humans exiled from Earth who are now skilled at adapting to any situation; the Zerg are a race of insectoid aliens in pursuit of genetic perfection and obsessed with assimilating other races; the Protoss are a humanoid species with advanced technology and psionic abilities who are attempting to preserve their civilization and strict philosophy about their way of life from the Zerg.
In order to support GO expansion plans for more frequent and reliable service on the Kitchener line, Bramalea station was undergone major improvements, including a new station building linked to a parking garage, a new passenger pick-up and drop-off area, improved bus platforms for GO Transit and Brampton Transit, with a dedicated Züm bus stop, covered bike parking, new retail spaces, improved access to Bramalea Road, new accessible pedestrian tunnel at the west end of the station, enhanced safety features including new emergency call systems and upgraded lighting, platform improvements with a snow-melt system, and extended platform to accommodate 12-car trains.
Before Portugal's sovereign debt crisis and an EU-IMF rescue plan, for the decade of 2010 Lisbon was expecting to receive many state-funded investments, including building a new airport, a new bridge, an expansion of the Lisbon Metro underground, the construction of a mega-hospital (or central hospital), the creation of two lines of a TGV to join Madrid, Porto, Vigo and the rest of Europe, the restoration of the main part of the town (between the Marquês de Pombal roundabout and Terreiro do Paço), the creation of a large number of bike lanes, as well as modernization and renovation of various facilities.
Depending on the rules of the monarchy, the heir presumptive might be the daughter of a monarch if males take preference over females and the monarch has no sons, or the senior member of a collateral line if the monarch is childless or the monarch's direct descendants cannot inherit (either because they are daughters and females are completely barred from inheriting, because the monarch's children are illegitimate, or because of some other legal disqualification, such as being descended from the monarch through a morganatic line or the descendant's refusal or inability to adopt a religion the monarch is required to profess).
It was after the 1940s, under Franco dictatorship, that a gradual language shift towards Spanish as native language took place as it looked to unite Spain and erase all signs of other cultures: the typically Portuguese looking streets had their names changed to Spanish, the Portuguese language was banned (making most people only able to speak Portuguese secretly inside their home), the education of children was controlled and even the names of Portuguese people changed to Spanish equivalent names (although some families kept using their Portuguese names and attributing Portuguese nicknames per family as an act of rebellion against the government).
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, whoever, whether inside or outside the United States, seizes or detains and threatens to kill, to injure, or to continue to detain another person in order to compel a third person or a governmental organization to do or abstain from doing any act as an explicit or implicit condition for the release of the person detained, or attempts or conspires to do so, shall be punished by imprisonment for any term of years or for life and, if the death of any person results, shall be punished by death or life imprisonment.
The fifth design of the ROH World Tag Team Championship from years 2017 to 2022 is sort of like a circle like repetitive round crown on all 5 plates of the belt that is gold with red and silver diamonds all around the center and side plates (2-side plates per side equaling to 4-side plates total) with also gold wording in the middle with black outlining on them and on the side of the belts plates that say ROH Tag Team but in the main middle center plate separating it from the sides has the extra words World and champions in the middle.
Over the course of his public service career, which began in 1998 with his first-time candidacy for President of the Republic, Noboa has been the object of multiple denunciations and labor- and tax- related allegations, as well as political and personal, ideological attacks, by what he describes as powerful and influential political and commercial adversaries from within the country who wish to do him harm via a permanent smear campaign aimed at denigrating his honor and that of his family, thereby evading his fight against corruption on behalf of the poor and undermining his aim to transform Ecuador into a developed country.
Note that in the United States Architects are not to be confused with "architectural engineering technology" which is different from architectural engineering; in the United States architectural engineering technologists tend to be "Engineering Technicians" that utilize CAD technology as drafters or technical assistants who do not have a license to practice either Architecture or Engineering, usually hired by larger construction firms or developers who prefer to cut out architectural design and maintain high costs of construction for standard processes and common building materials, while in Europe, Canada, South Africa and other countries Architectural technologists have a role similar to Architects and Architectural Engineers.
During the 2021 State of the Nation Address, Tokayev noted that Russian is an official language within Kazakhstan, adding that its use can't be hindered in accordance to the law and from there, he obliged to punish to any person taking part in discriminating on the basis of "linguistic and national grounds," a move that was viewed to have occurred in result of a backlash by Russian officials after a viral incident on YouTube showing Kostanay native Quat Ahmetov visiting places and forcing employees to speak Kazakh which led to a series of criminal cases by security agencies and Ahmetov fleeing the country.
The town, in its current form, originated in 1264 when the "commune" of Bologna created a vanguard here to counter the expansion of the Republic of Florence and in 1246, as a result of the complex politics of Italian city states of that period, the village was fortified to counter the continued border skirmishes and was given the nickname of "Scaricalasino" which literally translates as "unload the donkey"; this because the village sits at the top of a harsh ascent, which takes the traveller from 598 m to 841 m and it was indispensable to rest the beasts of burden following the climb.
Also in addition to these drums, the dhōlki is also used by many musicians - though this drum is believed to have descended from those brought to Sri Lanka from India - unlike the aforementioned instruments; which are believed to have existed in Sri Lanka prior to the arrival of the first Indian explorers (though this is difficult to verify due to the proximity of the two nations to one another - it is impossible to say, with any degree of certainty, that no cultural exchange occurred between the peoples of southern India and Sri Lanka prior to any particular date in history).
Perloff identified four factors as the reasons those individuals with strong attitudes towards a particular issue, as well as high involvement, might perceive hostile media bias: "selective recall," which causes partisans to focus more on contradictory information; "selective categorization," in which partisans categorize more content as unfair to their position than fair; "different standards," in which partisans classify more of the content that reflects positively on their position as accurate, and information that reflects negatively as inaccurate; and "prior beliefs about media bias," in which partisans judge media content unfairly based on a generalized negative set of beliefs about the media in general.
Other obstacles could include de-skilling and lower levels of driver experience for dealing with potentially dangerous situations and anomalies, ethical problems where an automated vehicle's software is forced during an unavoidable crash to choose between multiple harmful courses of action (the trolley problem), concerns about making large numbers of people currently employed as drivers unemployed, the potential for more intrusive mass surveillance of location, association and travel as a result of police and intelligence agency access to large data sets generated by sensors and pattern-recognition AI, and possibly insufficient understanding of verbal sounds, gestures and non-verbal cues by police, other drivers or pedestrians.
As prime minister, Major created the Citizen's Charter, removed the Poll Tax and replaced it with the Council Tax, committed British troops to the Gulf War, took charge of the UK's negotiations over the Maastricht Treaty of the European Union (EU), led the country during the early 1990s economic crisis, withdrew the pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (a day which came to be known as Black Wednesday), promoted the socially conservative back to basics campaign, passed further reforms to education and criminal justice, privatised the railways and coal industry, and also played a pivotal role in creating peace in Northern Ireland.
In more modern representations the seasons are often surrounding Apollo: Spring, as Flora, crowned with flowers, and in a shaded green drapery over a white robe: Summer, standing under the lion in the zodiac, with a gold-coloured drapery over a white gauze vestment, the edges of which are tinged by the yellow rays of the sun, holding a sickle, having near her a wheat-sheaf; Autumn, as a Bacchante, in a violet-coloured garment, pressing grapes with one band into a golden cup, which she holds in the other; and Winter as an aged person, placed in the shade at a great distance from the god.
We further hold that where government exists, it must not violate the right of any individual: namely (1) the right to life - accordingly, we support the prohibition of the initiation of physical force against others; (2) the right to liberty of speech and action - accordingly we oppose all attempts by the government to abridge the freedom of speech and the press, as well as government censorship in any form; and (3) the right to property - accordingly, we oppose all government interference with private property, such as confiscation, nationalization, and eminent domain, and support the prohibition of robbery, trespass, fraud, and misrepresentation.
The new Guildhall Library is a major public reference library, very connected with its past, holding a wide range of important works and sources including: a comprehensive collection of printed books on the City of London and its history, the Lloyds Marine Collection, a large collection of pamphlets from the 17th - 19th centuries covering political and social issues, a complete run of the London Gazette from 1665 to the present, extensive parliamentary resources including eighteenth-century poll books and a complete set of House of Commons papers from 1740, broadsides and an unrivalled collection of local and trade directories from 1677 to the present.
Both Stéphane Dion and Jack Layton have promised to reverse the cut, with Dion also promising to increase funding to Canada Council for the Arts to $360 million, while Layton also promised to bring income averaging for artists to the national level and providing an annual tax exemption of $20,000 for income earned by copyright and residuals, stating that "one of the key things we must do, before we start giving $50-billion tax giveaways to banks and oil companies, is to protect and promote the arts" and "stable, sure and appropriate funding" for CBC/Radio-Canada while also protecting Telefilm Canada and the Canadian Television Fund.
"The Mysteries of London" and its even lengthier sequel, "The Mysteries of the Court of London," are considered to be among the seminal works of the Victorian "urban mysteries" genre, a style of sensational fiction which adapted elements of Gothic novels - with their haunted castles, innocent noble damsels in distress and nefarious villains - to produce stories which instead emphasized the poverty, crime, and violence of a great metropolis, complete with detailed and often sympathetic descriptions of the lives of lower-class lawbreakers and extensive glossaries of thieves' cant, all interwoven with a frank sexuality not usually found in popular fiction of the time.
Although the piano is not especially loud at full power, it does show an impressive width of dynamic range compared to the plucked string instrument and it is fully capable of satisfying the original demand that Ferdinando di Medici made of Cristofori - to create an instrument that would, in accompanying his voice at home singing from the popular entertainments of the day mimic the gradual rising crescendo and falling diminuendo volume as well as the power to surprise an audience with the sudden'snap' of a loud note or chord to contrast with a quieter preceding passage sforzando of an opera house light orchestra.
In a leaked letter to Jacob Zuma in October 2008, outgoing President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki alluded to the role the ANC had created for Nelson and Winnie Mandela, as representative symbols of the brutality of apartheid: In the context of the global struggle for the release of political prisoners in our country, our movement took a deliberate decision to profile Nelson Mandela as the representative personality of these prisoners, and therefore to use his personal political biography, including the persecution of his wife, Winnie Mandela, dramatically to present to the world and the South African community the brutality of the apartheid system.
Underneath its simple noir narrative, some of the movie's key points lie in spotlighting what the author sees to be the staples of post-Milošević Serbian society such as the huge gap between the rich and the poor, an entire nouveau riche class that managed to gain enormous wealth through shady means in the years since the collapse of communism, a middle class that is teetering on the edge of poverty, patriotism being used to cover up criminal activities, workers and clerks at the mercy of ruthless foreign-based businesses that negotiated their entry into the shattered Serbian economy from an overwhelming position of strength, etc.
The Sennar dam is one of the highlights of the state of Sennar as the first dam built in the country with a lake capacity of about 390 million cubic meters of water used in irrigating agricultural projects such as Blue Nile Agricultural Foundation, Al Sookie agriculture project, Al Managel agriculture project, Aljazeera agriculture project, west of Sennar sugar project, and the Al-Rahad agriculture project, in addition to the use of storage in hydraulic power generation, which is estimated to have a production of about 14 MW covering more than 80% of sennar state's consumption and covers the slight deficit of the national grid.
In his article published in the "Olympic Revue" the official magazine of the International Olympic Committee in November 1992, the American historian Robert Barney explains that the idea of the interlaced rings came to Pierre de Coubertin when he was in charge of the USFSA, an association founded by the union of two French sports associations and until 1925, responsible for representing the International Olympic Committee in France: The emblem of the union was two interlaced rings (like the vesica piscis typical interlaced marriage rings) and originally the idea of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung: for him, the ring symbolized continuity and the human being.
King Abouda (Abdul Kader Kardaghli): "The Tishreen team at the time in 1982 was one of the strongest teams in Syria and was prepared to maintain the league championship for several years, but the team was dispersed after the decision to rebuild the municipal stadium (currently Al-Basil) and the maintenance work in it, which lasted three or four Years, during which we played in Tartous and Jableh, and despite that, we remained one of the teams competing for the championship and finished in the top three, before the players started leaving the club, such as Al-Najjar and Al-Badi to Jableh and Al-Qudamati to travel.
They claimed he went public with a series of accusations that later turned out to be untrue; that he exaggerated and intensified racial tensions; that he unduly influenced the Durham police investigation; that he tried to manipulate potential witnesses; that he refused to hear exculpatory evidence before indictment; that regulations on the conduct of an identification exercise were breached by failure to include "dummy" photographs of anyone who was not at the party; that he had never spoken directly to the alleged victim about the accusations; and that he made misleadingly incomplete presentations of various aspects of the evidence in the case (including DNA results).
Subpoenaed for testimony before a Los Angeles County grand jury, Stan McQuay was called to testify under oath regarding his involvement in the assault and murder of Fox Film executive Gavin Smith, having aided and abetted in the impromptu storage and concealment of Smith's stolen vehicle, for one week from the night of the murder, in his own garage, affording his gym buddy John Creech, a convicted drug dealer having just murdered Smith in the front seat of Smith's Mercedes-Benz E420, time sufficient to remove and discard Smith's body, and arrange for the bloodied vehicle's clandestine storage at a long-term storage facility in Simi Valley.
Humphrey is usually smooth, calm and collected within his element of bureaucracy and procedure, but has become so adept at working within and maintaining the system of government that, whenever anything unexpected is sprung on him, whether it be Hacker ordering him to negotiate with a rogue councillor, or honours in his department being made dependent on economies within the rationale of meritocracy, Humphrey immediately crumbles, on a few occasions being reduced to stuttering out garbled platitudes such as "the beginning of the end" or "it cuts at the very roots," although he usually regains his composure pretty quickly to push things back on track.
Reduce risks for society caused by natural and human-induced hazards, reduce health problems by improving understanding of the medical aspects of Earth science, discover new natural resources and make them available in a sustainable manner, build safer structures and expand urban areas, utilizing natural subsurface conditions, determine the non-human factor in climatic change, enhance understanding of the occurrence of natural resources so as to contribute to efforts to reduce political tension, detect deep and poorly accessible groundwater resources, improve understanding of the evolution of life, increase interest in the Earth sciences in society at large, encourage more young people to study Earth science in university.
Among the competences attributed to the functioning of this Network, the defense and promotion of gender equality and equity in social, political and economic life in the CPLP universe are distinguished; encouraging the formation and training of women parliamentarians; support for the candidacy of Women for the exercise of leadership; encouraging the implementation of public policies and legislation aimed at combating the feminization of poverty, sexually transmitted infections and the education of young people; the encouragement of behavior that is against practices that are likely to cause physical harm; and also, the improvement of the participation of women parliamentarians in conflict prevention and electoral processes.
When he fled to Hawaii by way of Guam, he also brought with him 22 crates of cash valued at $717 million, 300 crates of assorted jewelry with undetermined value, $4 million worth of unset precious gems contained in Pampers diaper boxes, 65 Seiko and Cartier watches, a 12 by 4 ft box crammed full of real pearls, a 3 ft solid gold statue covered in diamonds and other precious stones, $200,000 in gold bullion and nearly $1 million in Philippine pesos, and deposit slips to banks in the US, Switzerland, and the Cayman Islands worth $124 million, which he all amassed during his dictatorship.
According to the Roman historian Gaius Sallustius Crispus, the original people of North Africa are the Gaetulians and the Lybians, they were the prehistoric peoples that crossed to Africa from Iberia, then much later, Hercules and his army crossed from Iberia to North Africa where his army intermarried with the local populace and settled the region permanently, the Medes of his army that married the Libyans formed the Maur people, while the other part of his Army formed the Nomadas or as they are today known as the Numidians which later on united all of berber tribes of North Africa under the rule of Massinissa.
Spider-Man also possessed superhuman durability, allowing him to withstand any attack or damage he receive due to the fact that his durability is combined with his strength and as well as making Spider-Man stronger and tougher which it can only kill an ordinary human such as he can survive being hit by laser guns, electrocution, smashed into any obstacles, grenades, gases, explosives, surviving the falls, and even attacks from either powerful and non-powerful enemies which he would hardly feel it and that Spider-Man, despite taking damage, receives no injury what's so ever as he is able to quickly recover his injuries faster than ordinary ones.
When it is fully implemented, the ACB will be the sole issuer of the African single currency (the "Afro" or "Ariq") and/or working along African regional reserve banks, it will become the banker of the African Government and/or regional unions, it will be the banker to Africa's private and public banking institutions along African regional central banks, it will regulate, consult and supervise the African banking industry in sync with regional banking industries and unions, and it will set the official interest and exchange rates which may or may not be in sync with regional central banks; all in conjunction with the African Government's administration.
In 1985 Classical historian Georg Luck, in his "Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Roman Worlds," theorised that the origins of the Witch-cult may have appeared in late antiquity as a faith primarily designed to worship the Horned God, stemming from the merging of Cernunnos, a horned god of the Celts, with the Greco-Roman Pan/Faunus, a combination of gods which he posits created a new deity, around which the remaining pagans, those refusing to convert to Christianity, rallied and that this deity provided the prototype for later Christian conceptions of the Devil, and his worshippers were cast by the Church as witches.
After the British established Hong Kong as a crown colony in the aftermath of the First Opium War, merchants from other parts of the British Empire, now in Hong Kong, felt the need for a bank to finance the growing trade, through Hong Kong and sometimes also through Shanghai, between China and India, the rest of the British Empire and Europe, of goods, produces and merchandises of all kinds, but especially opium, cultivated in or transited (re-exported) through "the Raj," and to that end, they organised amongst themselves and formed The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank in Hong Kong (March 1865), and in Shanghai one month later.
The British military strove to make the beach an element of a so-called "impenetrable fortress" as part of their strategy to turn Singapore into a powerful military base (which was believed by the British government to be akin to a "Gibraltar of the East") in Southeast Asia to protect the UK's colonial interests and territories in the surrounding region that would be shown by making it extremely difficult and costly (in manpower and related resources) for an invading enemy force to conquer Singapore and would have proven very useful in fending off an enemy naval force trying to land troops on the southern shorelines of Singapore.
The Royal Council's method of giving Queen Christina several foster mothers to avoid her forming an attachment to a single person appears to have been effective, as Christina did not mention her foster mothers directly in her memoirs and did not seem to have formed an attachment to any of them; in fact, with only a few exceptions, such as Ebba Sparre, Lady Jane Ruthven and Louise van der Nooth, Christina did not show any interest in any of her female courtiers, and she generally mentions them in her memoirs only to compare herself favorably toward them by referring to herself as more masculine than they.
Take a quarter of a peck of Skirrets blanched, and sliced, season them with three Nutmegs, and an ounce of Cinnamon, and three ounces of Sugar, and ten quartered Dates, and the Marrow of three bones, rouled in yolks of Eggs, and one quarter of a pound of Ringo roots, and preserved Lettice, a sliced Lemon, four blades of Mace, three or four branches of preserved Barberries, and a half a pound of Butter, then let it stand one hour in the oven, then put a caudle made of white Wine, Verjuyce, Butter, and Sugar, put into the pye when it comes out of the oven.
Airport Drive starts at the intersection of Grants and Centre Road at Melbourne Airport, just south of Terminal 4, running east as a four-lane, dual-carriageway road past the Long Term Parking lot, turning south-east past more car parks and Airport service companies, before turning south along a wide alignment (to incorporate a future railway link to the airport) to the intersection with Sharps Road, then through the Tullamarine Park industrial area to terminate at the Western Ring Road; Westfield Drive continues past the interchange over the Albion-Jacana railway line to link to the Westfield Airport West shopping centre just under a kilometre away.
The papacy, in fact, can be regarded as the originator of many of the most basic elements of modern diplomacy and international law: the protection and safe conduct of ambassadors, the secrecy of diplomatic negotiations, the insistence that treaties and their terms, once made, are to be strictly adhered to, the condemnation of violations, provisions for the release of prisoners and hostages and their humane treatment while in detention, the protection of exiles, aliens, and racial minorities, and the condemnation of unjust wars all derive from the papal position both as the leader of Christian society and as a force for international unity among secular states.
He held a very thick iron flail-club in his skinny hand, and twenty chains out of it, and fifty apples on each chain of them, and a venomous spell on each great apple of them, and a girdle of the skins of deer and roebuck around the thing that was his body, and one eye in the forehead of his black-faced countenance, and one bare, hard, very hairy hand coming out of his chest, and one veiny, thick-soled leg supporting him and a close, firm, dark blue mantle of twisted hard-thick feathers, protecting his body, and surely he was more like unto devil than to man.
In pursuit of these goals, the Vision called for the space program to complete the International Space Station by 2010; retire the Space Shuttle by 2010; develop a new Crew Exploration Vehicle (later renamed Orion) by 2008, and conduct its first human spaceflight mission by 2014; explore the Moon with robotic spacecraft missions by 2008 and crewed missions by 2020, and use lunar exploration to develop and test new approaches and technologies useful for supporting sustained exploration of Mars and beyond; explore Mars and other destinations with robotic and crewed missions; pursue commercial transportation to support the International Space Station and missions beyond low Earth orbit.
As the calendar reached the year 1500, Europe was blossoming - with Leonardo da Vinci painting his "Mona Lisa" portrait not long after Christopher Columbus reached the Americas (1492), Amerigo Vespucci proofed that America is not a part of India and hence the new world derived from his name, the Portuguese navigator Vasco Da Gama sailed around Africa into the Indian Ocean and Michelangelo completed his paintings of Old Testament themes on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in Rome (the expense of such artistic exuberance did much to spur the likes of Martin Luther in Northern Europe in their protests against the Church of Rome).
Within the framework of the provisions of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (NOTRe Law) of August 7, 2015, which provides that public inter-municipal cooperation establishments (EPCI) with their own taxation must have a minimum of 15,000 inhabitants (and 5,000 inhabitants in mountain areas), the prefecture of Doubs has adopted the new departmental inter-municipal cooperation plan (SDCI) which provides in particular for the break-up of this community of communes and the attachment of some of its communes to the community of communes of Val-de-Marne, others to Grand Besançon Métropole, and two, finally, to the community of communes of Loue-Lison.
The same cables also reveal that the contras, according to President Fernandez, had the mandate of creating chaos in Haiti and had even killed a Canadian and a Jordanian MINUSTAH member in the past and that the killing could have been a response to Bacellar's reluctance to use force in Haiti's shanty town Cité Soleil regardless of pressure from Washington and a pressure campaign by the Chamber of Commerce head Reginald Boulos and André Apaid, the latter a sweatshop king in Haiti and both main figures in the civic front named Group 184 that played a main role in ousting President Aristide in the 2004 coup.
A 2009 academic paper explored the cultural production of LGBT representation in video games and found that factors that would lead to a significant increase in LGBT content included: the presence of motivated producers in the industry (those that are personally, politically, or commercially interested in LGBT content), how the audience for a text or medium is constructed (what the public backlash from both the LGBT community and conservative groups will be, as well as industry-based reprisals in the form of censorship or ratings), the structure of the industry and how it is funded, and how homosexuality, bisexuality, or transgender identities can be represented in the medium.
In view of the changed circumstances after the independence of Malaya in 1957, the LPM amended its constitution in 1959 to strive for the establishment of a united democratic socialist state of Malaya and to secure for the workers who work by hand or by brain the full fruits of their industry and the most equitable distribution thereof that may be possible, upon the basis of the common ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange, and the best obtainable system of popular administration and control of each industry or service (the latter part essentially mirroring the then Clause IV of the British Labour Party's constitution).
I venture to express the opinion that [Chamberlain] will find among the projects and plans which he will be called upon to discuss none containing a more Socialistic principle than that which is embodied in his own scheme, which, whether it can properly be described as a scheme of protection or not, is certainly a scheme under which the State is to undertake to regulate the course of commerce and of industry, and tell us where we are to buy, where we are to sell, what commodities we are to manufacture at home, and what we may continue, if we think right, to import from other countries.
Due to the gland, Darien has various powers beyond being able to simply turn invisible; he can turn his eyes invisible and see in infrared, his body temperature lowers to a point where he can cool drinks while invisible and escape heat-seeking weapons, he can turn others invisible so long as he remains in contact with them, and he can even turn parts of his body invisible while leaving the rest of him fully visible (Allowing him to, for example, pretend to be a double-amputee to infiltrate a hospital, or turn his head invisible to give the impression that he has killed himself to catch enemies off-guard).
Watkin was an ambitious visionary; as well as running an independent trunk route into London, where he was chairman of the Metropolitan Railway, he was also involved in a project to dig a channel tunnel under the English Channel to connect with the rail network of France, a scheme vetoed several times by the British Parliament for fear of military invasion by France; however, this project was effectively moribund by the time work on the GCML commenced, and historians who have examined the available primary sources have found no contemporaneous statement by Watkin that he envisaged through workings over the lines he controlled from Manchester to France.
Otherwise, in countries like Argentina and Uruguay, enthusiasm prevails over moderation, as well as taking part in an authentic carnival as part of the celebration that is mostly spontaneous, anarchic, and barely planned in the middle of the streets: hundreds of graduates, familiars and friends gather in an open place, carrying alcoholic drinks, eggs, flour and other messy food; pelting it all over the graduates; whereas the party is public and open to excesses that carry the complaints of all sorts of commerce, neighbours and authorities in the zone due to the concentration of public disorder and filth that lasts until the aftermath and overwhelms the municipal services.
These enhanced warnings are intended to convey the urgency of the weather situation to the general public, who are advised to take safety precautions immediately if they are in or near the projected path of a large tornado or its accompanying thunderstorm; tornado emergencies are usually identified following the preceding storm summary in the tornado warning product, which itself will denote visual or radar confirmation of "a large and extremely dangerous [or destructive] tornado" that is ongoing; precautionary action statements in the product also recommend that people in the storm's path find shelter in an underground shelter or safe room to protect themselves from the storm, if available.
At that time, it was noted that if the decline continued for long enough, it could in theory eventually deprive the Premier League of its entitlement to have four teams in the Champions League each year, which it has had since 2005, but the coefficient tables gave little cause for concern from an English perspective, as all England's relevant coefficients were ahead of fourth-placed Italy's, and this did not change until 2018, when the quotas were adjusted by UEFA to guarantee four Champions League places to each of the top four nations, with those clubs going into the group stage directly rather than having to navigate qualifying rounds.
Ramsey later dropped his own legislative support of his SJR0014 Thomas Paine Day" resolution by May 6, 2009, after being informed that Paine was also the author of the best-selling book, "The Age of Reason; Being an Investigation of True and Fabulous Theology" (three editions: 1794, 1795, and 1807) that sparked a deistic revival in the early history of the United States by challenging the concept of institutionalized religion (in particular, Christianity), what Paine saw as evidence of corruption within the Christian Church as evidenced by the efforts of many of its Christian religious leaders to acquire temporal political power, and even the legitimacy of the Bible itself.
If anyone thus speaks, that the Roman pontiff has only the office of inspection or direction, but not the full and supreme power of jurisdiction over the universal Church, not only in things which pertain to faith and morals, but also in those which pertain to the discipline and government of the Church spread over the whole world; or, that he possesses only the more important parts, but not the whole plenitude of this supreme power; or that this power of his is not ordinary and immediate, or over the churches altogether and individually, and over the pastors and the faithful altogether and individually: let him be anathema.
The'liberty' mentioned in [the Fourteenth] amendment means not only the right of the citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term is deemed to embrace the right of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of all his faculties, to be free to use them in all lawful ways, to live and work where he will, to earn his livelihood by any lawful calling, to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose "to enter into all contracts which may be proper, necessary, and essential" to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned.
His work in sociobiology, preeminently "Human Nature and Biocultural Evolution" (1984) and "Crisis in Sociology: The Need for Darwin" (with his former student, Timothy Crippen, 1999), provides a theory of human nature embedded in a taxonomy of "behavioral predispositions"; a demonstration of bio-cultural interdependence in such areas as ethnicity, sex roles, and social inequality; an argument that the "crisis" in sociology arises primarily from the failure to discover even a single general law or principle ("no general law, no science"); and, inter alia, a well-reasoned appeal for a scientific sociology through the exploitation of the sociobiology "fitness principle," to which he has attached a number of important culture-relevant conditions.
Martin believes that the Act should be modified to include some privacy safeguards: before information is gathered she believes that the court should approve the information transfer to make sure that it is necessary for ongoing activities by the agencies involved; that information shared should be limited to information relevant to investigations into terrorism; that only those people who have access to such information should actually need it to do their jobs (currently those who are not directly related to the investigation can gain access to the information); and information gathered should be marked as confidential and measures put into place to stop the inappropriate dissemination of such information.
Besides those basic features, its many third-party plug-ins make VirtualDub a "powerful" open-source tool when it comes to linear video processing, and in fact most of the hundreds of third-party plug-ins available for VirtualDub are filters related to either aesthetic effects or cleaning, fixing, and restoring image quality, such as various denoising and sharpening methods targeted especially at analogue and digital video signal and film defects (be they related to VHS, faulty cables, a distorted analogue terrestrial or satellite TV reception, or digital compression), deinterlacing and fields manipulation, colorspace conversion and manipulation, reverse telecine aka IVTC, deflickering, deshaking, adding and removing logos and subtitles, analysis of video content, etc.
On 29 November 2006, State Secretary in the German Federal Ministry of the Interior, Christoph Bergner, outlined the stance of the respective governmental institutions on Deutschlandfunk (a public-broadcasting radio station in Germany) saying that the numbers presented by the German government and others are not contradictory to the numbers cited by Haar and that the below 600,000 estimate comprises the deaths directly caused by atrocities during the expulsion measures and thus only includes people who were raped, beaten, or else killed on the spot, while the above two million estimate includes people who on their way to postwar Germany died of epidemics, hunger, cold, air raids and the like.
In "Making Development Geography" (2007), Victoria Lawson presents a critique of mainstream development discourse as mere recreation of the Subaltern, which is effected by means of the subaltern being disengaged from other social scales, such as the locale and the community; not considering regional, social class, ethnic group, sexual- and gender-class differences among the peoples and countries being modernized; the continuation of the socio-cultural treatment of the subaltern as a subject of development, as a subordinate who is ignorant of what to do and how to do it; and by excluding the voices of the subject peoples from the formulations of policy and practice used to effect the modernization.
Thompson brought suit in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut where a three-judge panel, one judge dissenting, declared the provision of Connecticut law unconstitutional, holding that the waiting-period requirement is unconstitutional because it "has a chilling effect on the right to travel" and also holding that the provision violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, "because the denial of relief to those resident in the State for less than a year is not based on any permissible purpose but is solely designed, as 'Connecticut states quite frankly,' 'to protect its fisc by discouraging entry of those who come needing relief'" (decision of the Court).
On September 18, 2006, the Office of the Deputy Inspector General for Investigations released a report stating that Shaffer was put on leave, that the crew responsible for removing any classified documents from his office to prevent his taking them home with him found that he did not have any of the Able Danger-related documents trusted to him he claimed he had, and that despite the fact that the Army cleared him of any wrongdoing in the allegations "DIA officials would have taken action to revoke LTC Shaffer's access and clearance regardless of his disclosures to the DIA IG, the 9/11 Commission staff members, Members of Congress, or the media.
When Regulation 1612/68 abolished movement and residence restrictions for member state workers and their families in the entire EEC territory, thus ending the transitional period established by article 49 of the Rome Treaty, not only this created the conditions for a full exercise of free movement rights, but a number of important new rights were subsequently recognized by the ECJ, such as: the right to a minimum wage in the host state, the reduction of fares on public transport for large families, the right to a check for disabled adults, interest-free loans for the birth of children, the right to reside with a non-spousal partner, the payment of funeral expenses.
In case of a vacancy of the presidential office for whatever reason, or a permanent impairment of the current president, affirmed by the Constitutional Court called upon by the government through an absolute majority of its members, or failing that, by the bureaus of the two chambers of Parliament with a majority of their members, the president of the Senate will temporarily exercise the duties of the president of the republic, or in case of permanent impairment of the president of the Senate, affirmed by the Constitutional Court called upon in the same conditions, the first vice-president of the Senate will temporarily carry out the duties of the presidential office.
When police obtain search warrants in connection with a vandalism investigation, they are often seeking judicial approval to look for items such as cans of spray paint and nozzles from other kinds of aerosol sprays; etching tools, or other sharp or pointed objects, which could be used to etch or scratch glass and other hard surfaces; permanent marking pens, markers, or paint sticks; evidence of membership or affiliation with any gang or tagging crew; paraphernalia including any reference to " (tagger's name) "; any drawings, writing, objects, or graffiti depicting taggers' names, initials, logos, monikers, slogans, or any mention of tagging crew membership; and any newspaper clippings relating to graffiti crime.
The village is currently served by one pub, "The Horse and Jockey," which sits at the top of Ravensden hill directly next to the Church, though previously there had been three other pubs; "The Case Is Altered," on Church End, though this closed in 1995 and is now in residential use; "The Blacksmiths Arms," previously "The Cross," which was situated at the crossroads, and which closed in the early 2000's; and "The White Lion," which was opposite the site of "The Blacksmiths Arms," until the two came under the same ownership in 1941, at which time the decision was taken to close the former and transfer its licence to the latter.
The District of Columbia Organic Act of 1801 is an organic act enacted by Congress under of the United States Constitution that formally placed the District of Columbia under the control of Congress and organized the unincorporated territory within the District into two counties: Washington County to the north and east of the Potomac River and Alexandria County to the west and south; left in place and made no change to the status of the charters of the existing cities of Georgetown and Alexandria; and established a court in each of the new counties, with the common law of both Maryland and Virginia continuing to remain in force within the District.
In contrast, those who endorse such taxes contend that the result is that if one consumes a larger amount of the products which increase healthcare costs (in a system where citizens share each other's medical costs) - or those whose habits damage the environment, or if one's animals require antibiotics constantly to ameliorate disease-prone conditions, antibiotics which breed super-bugs that may also attack humans - then one would merely be paying for their own largesse, and the costs to society that their habits cause (and the opposition argues that one "should" pay more, commensurately, as one does or consumes more of what harms others in his society) (see also Pigovian tax).
Some of the most notorious historical buildings in Villamañán are "la Ermita de la Zarza" ("Church of the Blackberry"), where the legend says the ghost of Virgin Mary appeared on a blackberry shrub that was right where the church is nowadays and told the people who saw it to build a church there in her honor (hence the name "Church of the Blackberry") as well as the historical church located in "Plaza Mayor" along with its big tower that can be seen from anywhere in the town and even from outside of it and its bells that ring every hour and every half an hour nonstop, being heard from anywhere in town.
In Barcelona, in Valencia, in the province of Cáceres and in Madrid I have acted, and continue to act, in such interesting tasks as stimulating, directing and organising the peasants so that instead of abandoning their agricultural work, even in those areas abandoned by the fascists in their flight, they work to avoid interruption in production and provision of supplies for the towns; in establishing and organising schools and homes for the children of those citizens who have fallen or who are fighting on the various fronts, and in general taking advantage of all opportunities to spread among the combatants our humanitarian ideals and our repugnance to oppression and cruelty' (Brown, 1937).
The state is home to various attractions, natural features, parks and events that attract visitors from around the globe, notably the annual Hangout Music Festival, held on the public beaches of Gulf Shores; the Alabama Shakespeare Festival, one of the ten largest Shakespeare festivals in the world; the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail, a collection of championship caliber golf courses distributed across the state; casinos such as Victoryland; amusement parks such as Alabama Splash Adventure; the Riverchase Galleria, one of the largest shopping centers in the southeast; Guntersville Lake, voted the best lake in Alabama by Southern Living Magazine readers; and the Alabama Museum of Natural History, the oldest museum in the state.
At present, freeway expansion has largely stalled in the United States, due to a multitude of factors that converged in the 1970s: higher due process requirements prior to taking of private property, increasing land values, increasing costs for construction materials, local opposition to new freeways in urban cores, the passage of the National Environmental Policy Act (which imposed the requirement that each new federally funded project must have an environmental impact statement or report) and falling gas tax revenues as a result of the nature of the flat-cent tax (it is not automatically adjusted for inflation), the tax revolt movement, and growing popular support for high-speed mass transit in lieu of new freeways.
"The Verge" felt that "Trolls World Tour" "could be a case study for Hollywood's digital future" even after the COVID-19 pandemic, acknowledging that although the vast majority of high-profile blockbuster films were more likely to receive a windowed release as to not erode relationships with the cinema industry (a preference endorsed by the National Association of Theatre Owners, which has led to such films having their releases repeatedly postponed, such as "F9" and "No Time to Die," rather than a simultaneous or straight-to-digital release), studios may be more likely to explore simultaneous releases on a case-by-case basis, especially for mid-budget films with lower revenue expectations (which could benefit from a wider multi-platform release).
Comparing the historical safety record of civilian nuclear energy with other forms of electrical generation, Ball, Roberts, and Simpson, the IAEA, and the Paul Scherrer Institute found in separate studies that during the period from 1970 to 1992, there were just 39 on-the-job deaths of nuclear power plant workers worldwide, while during the same time period, there were 6,400 on-the-job deaths of coal power plant workers, 1,200 on-the-job deaths of natural gas power plant workers and members of the general public caused by natural gas power plants, and 4,000 deaths of members of the general public caused by hydroelectric power plants with failure of Banqiao dam in 1975 resulting in 170,000-230,000 fatalities alone.
Furthermore, The Westminster Bubble can also be viewed as a centralisation of political issues geographically around Westminster and Parliament, where in which London based and diplomatic issues gain more attention than more regional issues in other areas of the United Kingdom, particularly Scotland, Wales, Northern England and Northern Ireland, in which have been argued to have been in some cases "left behind" in the decision-making processes in Westminster due to a centralisation of focus on issues specific to the capital of London and England, especially in regard to Brexit: both Scotland and Northern Ireland voted to remain in the European Union, but have been forced to undertake the verdict of the Westminster government.
Following the 1988 federal election, after a decision of the Attorney General of Canada to stay a prosecution under the Broadcasting Act initiated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) against several Canadian television networks, at the instance of the CRTC, a private prosecution was instituted on behalf of the Green Party of Canada by former Chief Agent and Treasurer Greg Vezina against CBC, CTV and Global, claiming that these broadcasters had breached the Television Broadcasting Regulations 1987, because they had not included the Green Party and other accredited and registered small political party leaders in the leaders' debates during a federal general election and had failed to provide equitable time to them.
Although Steinitz's play changed abruptly, he said he had been thinking along such lines for some years: Some of the games which I saw Paulsen play during the London Congress of 1862 gave a still stronger start to the modification of my own opinions, which has since developed, and I began to recognize that Chess genius is not confined to the more or less deep and brilliant finishing strokes after the original balance of power and position has been overthrown, but that it also requires the exercise of still more extraordinary powers, though perhaps of a different kind to maintain that balance or respectively to disturb it at the proper time in one's own favor.
(2) Where the Board is satisfied that an employee, because of their religious conviction or beliefs, objects to joining a trade union or to paying regular union dues to a trade union, the Board may order that the provision in a collective agreement requiring, as a condition of employment, membership in a trade union or requiring the payment of regular union dues to a trade union does not apply to that employee so long as an amount equal to the amount of the regular union dues is paid by the employee, either directly or by way of deduction from their wages, to a registered charity mutually agreed on by the employee and the trade union.
That this Assembly doth explicitly and peremptorily declare, that it views the powers of the federal government as resulting from the compact to which the states are parties, as limited by the plain sense and intention of the instrument constituting that compact, as no further valid than they are authorized by the grants enumerated in that compact; and that, in case of a deliberate, palpable, and dangerous exercise of other powers, not granted by the said compact, the states, who are parties thereto, have the right, and are in duty bound, to interpose, for arresting the progress of the evil, and for maintaining, within their respective limits, the authorities, rights and liberties, appertaining to them.
Lauder owned property on the High Street of Edinburgh, mentioned in a letter of reversion dated 16 April 1505 by Mr John of Murray, burgess of Edinburgh to William of Todrig, burgess of Edinburgh, of an annual rent of 40s Scots out of the houses and land called "the paintit chalmer" with the pertinents lying in the said burgh on the north side of the King's Street between the lands of Sir William Lindsay on the east part and the land of the Archbishop of Glasgow on the west part and the land of William Halkerstoune [Haxton] on the south part and the land of Sir Robert Lauder of the Bass on the north part.
Additionally, while recognizing the fundamental importance of physical (including biological) reality in health, such as the nature of particular pathogens or the release of toxins into the environment, CMA emphasizes the fact that it is not merely the idea of "nature" - the way external reality is conceived and related to by humans - but also the very physical shape of nature, including human biology, that has been deeply influenced by an evolutionary history of social inequality, overt and covert social conflict, and the operation of both physical power and the power to shape dominant ideas and conceptions in society and internationally through processes of globalization, control of production and reproduction, and control of labor.
With the evil skeleton nowhere in sight, the pharmacist joins the bottles in their merriment as they all begin to sing, dance and frolic in turn: three bottles of Cuban rum sing a Spanish song, a pair of rubber gloves spring to life and tap-dance, a bottle of Carmencita-brand powder and a bottle of toilet water dance a flamenco dance, a pair of salt shakers come to life as Dutch children and go ice-skating on a mirror while a bottle of talcum powder drops imaginary snow on them, a bottle of shaving cream happily takes up a shaving razor, and the pharmacist finally takes up a smoking pipe and begins playing it like a tuba.
The "Reglamento para miembros" (Members" bylaws) of the organization establishes a series of norms for the participants including the obligation of at least 12 hours per month of voluntary work (although this can be increased if the person is sanctioned or if they can't do the monthly payments), the prohibition of any kind of critic to the leaders and fellow members "to the former in any sense, to the later in their personal affairs," the requirement of the students to stand up anytime the teacher enters the room, the mandatory use of tie and jacket for men and skirts for women in all official events, and to refrain from any kind of so-called "immorality," among others.
"Section 30A" declared that any body of persons, incorporated or unincorporated (or "[a]ny branch or committee of an unlawful association, and any institution or school conducted by or under the authority or apparent authority of an unlawful association") which by its constitution or propaganda or otherwise advocates or encourages (or "which is, or purports to be, affiliated with any organization which advocates or encourages") sabotage; damage to property used in cross-border trade or commerce; revolution or war against either any "civilised country" or "organised government"; or the doing of any act having or purporting to have as an object the carrying out of a seditious intention was an unlawful association for the purposes of the Act.
"The Day of the Doctor" (2013), set during the final day of the Time War, revealed that instead of Gallifrey and the Time Lords burning when the Dalek fleet was wiped out, 13 incarnations of the Doctor actually froze Gallifrey in a "parallel pocket universe"; its sudden disappearance causing the Daleks to destroy themselves in the crossfire as they concentrated fire on the planet, though the time streams being out of sync meant the Doctor did not retain his memory until his eleventh incarnation; earlier on in the episode, both the Tenth and the Eleventh Doctors mistakenly believe that the War Doctor killed all of the Time Lords on the last day of the Time War.
"Anxiety Generation" (2014) at Delahunty Gallery on Bruton Street was reviewed in Modern Painters by Jonathan R Jones who likened the series to John Carpenter's film "They Live" and referencing Heidegger and Derrida in context of the erasure of text used by Semple "words in his paintings ("too high, too far, too soon," "cool aid," and "Froot Loops") are frequently crossed out, suggesting their inability to convey meaning," and commends the achievement to cut through our cynicism and give images again the power to disturb with his use paint where horror images have been immortalised out of the faster moving social media image world that can see society numb to continual rolling images of war and disaster.
If two coplanar circles, the diameter of one of which is equal to half the diameter of the other, are taken to be internally tangent at a point, and if a point is taken on the smaller circle - and let it be at the point of tangency - and if the two circles move with simple motions in opposite direction in such a way that the motion of the smaller [circle] is twice that of the larger so the smaller completes two rotations for each rotation of the larger, then that point will be seen to move on the diameter of the larger circle that initially passes through the point of tangency, oscillating between the endpoints.
If any individual belonging to said tribes of Indians, or legally incorporated with them, being the head of a family, shall desire to commence farming, he shall have the privilege to select, in the presence and with the assistance of the agent then in charge, a tract of land within the reservation of his tribe, not exceeding three hundred and twenty acres in extent, which tract so selected, certified, and recorded in the "land book," as herein directed, shall cease to be held in common, but the same may be occupied and held in the exclusive possession of the person selecting it, and of his family, so long as he or they may continue to cultivate it.
The military educational system, according to the concept of military strategy of the National Armed Forces, has a mission to educate, train and develop professionals pro-active, responsible, aware of the commitment with the defense in depth and its participated actively in the development of the country, achieving a comprehensive and interdisciplinary training that enable them to interact with the management of public or private; the education system will be geared towards a sound humanistic, scientific, research and spiritual culture that promotes leadership and educational self-management, development of competences, which facilitates the adaptation of their knowledge to the continuous transformation of science and technology, with emphasis on the observance and respect of human rights and international humanitarian law.
The name of the institute was changed, a few months after its inception, to the Higher Institute of Industrial Engineering, then subsequently renamed after an order by the Ministry of Higher Education, due to its increased importance and to reflect its advancement, and in agreement with UNESCO in 1967, to The Higher College of Industrial Engineering and subsequently amended to the college of Engineering Technology, while simultaneously annexed to the University of Baghdad, Final disengagement of the Faculty from the University of Baghdad, was issued by The decision to establish the University of Technology on 1 April 1975, by a Presidential Decree.
There are steps that make bibliotherapy a more effective solution for dealing with the issues that a student may be facing, including developing support, trust, and confidence with the student with an issue, identifying other school personnel that could aid in implementing the therapy, seeking support from the student's parents or guardians, defining the issue that the student is facing and why the teacher wants to help solve it, creating goals that may help the student overcome the issue, researching books that may help with the specific problem, introducing the book to all the people that will be involved, incorporating reading activities, and evaluating the effects and successes that the book may have had on the student.
In the Biblical account, earlier regulations had specified that property was to be inherited by heirs who were male, but the daughters were the only children of their now deceased father, and so they came to the door of the "Tent of Meeting" and asked Moses, Eleazer, the tribal chieftains, and the rest of the "congregation," for advice on what was to be done, as there were no obvious male heirs; in the Talmud, opinions vary as to whether this means that the daughters petitioned all of these groups at the same time, with them gathered together, or if it means that the daughters first petitioned the "congregation," then the chieftains, then Eleazar, and finally petitioned Moses.
BUF is credited with pioneering in the following fields: stereo-modeling and camera mapping techniques in production; the development of motion blur post-process and camera tracking software; creating'freezing-effect'; conceiving 3D camera movements in a photorealistic environment reproduced by utilizing still photographic images; introducing new software that simulates clothing; producing invisible continuous shots between live action and full CG; advancing singular character animation software; introducing crowd generation and management techniques along with new fluids and solid dynamics systems; creating original tools dedicated to animation and paint3D and launching the'bullet time' effect created for "The "Matrix" franchise, which was directly inspired by the research carried out by BUF while working on Michel Gondry's "Like A Rolling Stone" music video in 1996.
Apart from introducing several rice varieties of IRR in Vietnam, other assistance provided by the Institute relate to the involvement in the irrigated rice ecosystem to increase their production and income through several measures such as; creating a communication among farmers through a network of pest management on concepts such as "no early insecticide spray" policy as a standard practice in rice production, integrated nutrient management measures, improved water management and financial support from the Australian Government, strengthening the Cuu Long Delta Rice Research Institute with UNDP assistance, and also several research projects undertaken jointly by the IRRI with institutions in Vietnam on hybrid rice, insect infestation, potassium deficiencies in soils affecting yields and rice based farm research.
Forasmuch as the number of slaves in the cities of New York and Albany, as also within the several counties, towns and manors within this colony, doth daily increase, and that they have oftentimes been guilty of confederating together in running away, and of other ill and dangerous practices, be it therefore unlawful for above three slaves to meet together at any time, nor at any other place, than when it shall happen they meet in some servile employment for their masters' or mistresses' profit, and by their masters' or mistresses' consent, upon penalty of being whipped upon the naked back, at the discretion of any one justice of the peace, not exceeding forty lashes for each offense.
The resolution also calls upon all countries to fully respect international law applicable to the rights and protection of women and girls, in particular the obligation under the Geneva Convention of 1949 and Additional Protocol thereto of 1977, the 1951 Refugee Convention and the Protocol thereto of 1967, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and its Optional Protocol, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child and both its Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict and its Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and finally to bear in mind the provisions of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
It is the policy of the United States that any State (or political subdivision thereof) may, in the administration of any tax, general public assistance, driver's license, or motor vehicle registration law within its jurisdiction, utilize the social security account numbers issued by the Commissioner of Social Security for the purpose of establishing the identification of individuals affected by such law, and may require any individual who is or appears to be so affected to furnish to such State (or political subdivision thereof) or any agency thereof having administrative responsibility for the law involved, the social security account number (or numbers, if he has more than one such number) issued to him by the Commissioner of Social Security.
A similar situation occurs regarding the distinctions between Indigenous peoples and Mestizos: while the term "Mestizo" is sometimes used in English with the meaning of a person with mixed indigenous and European blood, this usage does not conform to the Mexican social reality where a person of pure Indigenous genetic heritage would be considered Mestizo either by rejecting his indigenous culture or by not speaking an indigenous language, and a person with none or a very low percentage of indigenous genetic heritage would be considered fully indigenous either by speaking an indigenous language or by identifying with a particular indigenous cultural heritage.
When a person dies in a place which is not a house, or a dead body is found elsewhere than in a house, every relative of the deceased person having knowledge of any particulars required to be registered concerning the death, and every person present at the death, and every person taking charge of the body, and, if the death occurs in a ship or vessel the master or other person having charge of the ship or vessel, and the person causing the body to be buried must, within 24 hours after the death or finding of the body, give to the authorities such information that the informant has concerning the death that is required to be registered.
The Medal "For the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941-1945" was awarded to all military and civilian personnel of the Red Army, of the Navy and of the troops of the NKVD who were directly involved on the different fronts of World War II and ensured victory through their work in the various military districts; to all military and civilian personnel who served during the Great Patriotic War in the ranks of the Red Army, of the Navy or of the NKVD destruction battalions, but who were released from military service due to injury or illness, as well as those transferred by decision of the state or Party organizations to tasks outside of the armed forces.
It is not the purpose of this short article to depreciate the services of accountants; in fact, under the existing conditions probably no body of men has done more to crystallise the data on which we carry on the business of the world; but the utter confusion of thought which has undoubtedly arisen from the calm assumption of the book-keeper and the accountant that he and he alone was in a position to assign positive or negative values to the quantities represented by his figures is one of the outstanding curiosities of the industrial system; and the attempt to mould the activities of a great empire on such a basis is surely the final condemnation of an out-worn method.
I have long been satisfied that a course of instruction might be adopted in the education of apprentices to mechanical employments, whereby moral and intellectual training might be united with the processes by which the arts of mechanism as well as skill in the use and adaptation of tools and machinery are taught, so as to elevate our mechanics as a class in the scale of intelligence and influence, and add to their personal independence and happiness, while it renders them better and more useful citizens, and so more like our Divine Master, whose youth combined the conversations of the learned with the duties of a mechanic's son, and whose ideas and teachings now underlie the civilization of the world.
Strengthening measures adopted by Tamil Nadu PWD from 1979 with the recommendation of Central Water Commission (CWC) include grouting of the old dam with concrete, guniting the upstream face of dam, cable anchoring of the dam's structure with the foundation throughout its length, RCC (Reinforced Concrete Construction) capping on top of the dam at height above 145 feet, building 10 meter RCC concrete backing structure with 10 feet foundation up to height of 145 feet in downstream face of dam and binding the RCC structure using shear keys and concrete grouting with the old structure and the foundation along the downstream face of dam, building additional drainage galleries in order to measure seepage and additional sluice gates for water evacuation.
While Mandel himself made some successful predictions about the future of world society (for instance, he is famous for predicting at the beginning of the 1960s, like Milton Friedman did, that the postwar economic boom would end at the close of the decade), his Trotskyist critics (including his biographer Jan Willem Stutje) argue, with the benefit of hindsight, that he was far too optimistic and hopeful about the possibility of a workers' revolution in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union during the Mikhail Gorbachev era and after - and more generally, that his historical optimism distorted his political perspectives, so that he became too "certain" about a future that he could not be so certain about, or else crucially ambivalent.
Central Park itself is home to "The Log," a massive log felled in the surrounding countryside which serves to remind the townsfolk of the timber (and dairy) driven history of the area, a de Havilland Vampire fighter plane (opposite the RSL Club), a cricket pitch (Phil Tufnell played an exhibition match in Wingham in which he was bowled for a duck in the first innings, by Glenn Levine, but made a good fist of it in the second), some children's play equipment, a drinking fountain commemorating the installation of mains water in the town, a small ornamental waterfall (which has been filled in with a garden), and two flag poles at opposite ends of the northern side of the park.
On July 29, 2008, Francis announced one of the most ambitious projects of his mayoral term, a waterfront redevelopment proposal which would transform a struggling section of downtown Windsor into a waterfront park by converting the block bounded by Crawford, Caron and University Avenues - an area which currently consists primarily of parking lots and a disused section of railway track - into an inland marina cut back from the Detroit River, and converting either Chatham Street or Pitt Street into a canal and adjoining boardwalk, which would extend easterly for three blocks from the marina to a spot near the Art Gallery of Windsor, and then from there back to the river at the eastern edge of Dieppe Park.
In a complex, shifting world, it is essential to develop a high degree of intellectual literacy and critical-thinking skills, a sense of moral and ethical responsibility to one's community, the ability to reason clearly, to think rationally, to analyze information intelligently, to respond to people in a compassionate and fair way, to continue learning new information and concepts over a lifetime, to appreciate and gain pleasure from the beauty of the arts and literature and to use these as an inspiration and a solace when needed, to revert to our historical past for lessons that will help shape the future intelligently and avoid unnecessary mistakes, to create a sense of self-esteem that comes from personal accomplishments and challenges met with success.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to make payments to state and local governments for making polling places, including the path of travel, entrances, exits, and voting areas of each polling facility, accessible to individuals with disabilities, including the blind and visually impaired, in a manner that provides the same opportunity for access and participation (including privacy and independence) as for other voters; and providing individuals with disabilities and others with information about the accessibility of polling places, including outreach programs to inform the individuals about the availability of accessible polling places and training election officials, poll workers, and election volunteers on how best to promote the access and participation of individuals with disabilities in elections for Federal office.
The Lebanese National Dialogue Conference was held in Doha between 16 May and 21 May 2008, with the participation of the Lebanese political leaders who are members of the National Dialogue Conference and who have asserted their commitment to saving Lebanon and ending the current political crisis and its dangerous consequences for the coexistence formula and civil peace among the Lebanese, as well as their commitment to the principles enshrined by the Lebanese constitution and the Taif Agreement; and as a result of this Conference, as well as of the bilateral and collective meetings and consultations between the president and members of the Arab Ministerial Committee and all parties that took part in this Conference the parties were able to reach an agreement.
Common adverse effects (occurring in between 1% and 10% of people who take the drug) include infections (pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, colds, and urinary tract infection), loss of white blood cells, loss of red blood cells, anaphylactic reaction, hypersensitivity reaction, loss of appetite, mood changes like depression and anxiety, a sense of tingling or numbness, blurred vision, vertigo, ringing in the ears, heart palpitations, high blood pressure, low blood pressure, vascular damage, peritonitis, constipation, upset stomach, swollen belly, itchy skin, increased sweating, blotches from small bleeds under the skin and skin redness, hives, muscle spasms, bone pain, back pain, neck pain, swollen joints, kidney damage, painful urination, spontaneous erections, general edema, chest pain, weakness, pain at the infusion site, and elevated transaminases.
Although the chief of the village, his role in most plots is usually minor, commonly featuring him granting Asterix and Obelix permission to go on their latest missions, although he has shown a greater involvement in stories such as "Asterix and the Big Fight" when he had to battle a rival chieftain, "Asterix and the Chieftain's Shield" when he traveled to a health spa on Getafix's orders to cure a liver complaint and to lose weight, "Asterix in Belgium," where he traveled to Belgium to defend his honor when Caesar apparently proclaimed that the Belgians were the bravest of all the Gaulish peoples, or "Asterix and Caesar's Gift," where he ran against a new arrival in the village for the position of chief.
We, the representatives of the people of Guatemala, elected freely and democratically, meeting in National Constituent Assembly in order to organize legally and politically the State; affirming the primacy of the human person as the subject and purpose of social order; recognizing the family as the primary and fundamental genesis of the spiritual and moral values of society and the State, responsible for promoting the common good, the consolidation of the regime of legality, security, justice, equality, freedom and peace; inspired by the ideals of our ancestors and picking up our traditions and cultural heritage; determined to promote the full enjoyment of human rights within a stable, permanent and popular institutional order, where rulers and ruled proceed with absolute adherence to the law.
However, if, in the course of events, the maintenance of the status quo in the regions of the Balkans or of the Ottoman coasts and islands in the Adriatic and in the Aegean Sea should become impossible, and if, whether in consequence of the action of a third Power or otherwise, Austria-Hungary or Italy should find themselves under the necessity of modifying it by a temporary or permanent occupation on their part, this occupation shall take place only after a previous agreement between the two Powers, based upon the principle of reciprocal compensation for every advantage, territorial or other, which each of them might obtain beyond the present status quo, and giving satisfaction to the interests and well-founded claims of the two Parties.
Rebane is credited with the introduction of the first 360 degree (wrap around) motion picture process to the Motion Picture Industry of the world, an innovation that spurred the Cinemax process and today's Rotascope cameras; as the creator of the Wisconsin Film Office; as the producer, director, writer, and cinematographer on 12 independent feature films, all of which have enjoyed successful international theatrical release; as producer/director of one of the fifty top-grossing films of 1975 ("The Giant Spider Invasion," $23 million gross); as having produced, directed, edited, and production designed at least one hundred commercial, industrial, corporate image, documentary or promotion films; and for the creation and successful operation of the first full-time feature film studio in the Midwest for over 30 years.
Miners are restrained from conducting or engaging in marches to the mines, property and works of said Keystone Coal and Coke Company and from assembling at or near the works of said company for the purpose of holding meetings at such places at any time, and from assembling on the highways at such places where the employees of the said company ordinarily pass to and from their work, and from preventing said employees from going peaceably along said injunction: highways and also from attempting by noise, intimidation, threats, personal violence or by any other means to interfere with the employees of said company in their desire to labor or with any of the property of the said company until further order of this court.
Following some poor results for Real Madrid in the months following Zidane's departure - culminating in elimination from the Copa del Rey at home to Barcelona, a league loss to the same opponent at the same venue which opened up a 12-point gap between the clubs, and an unexpected home 4-1 defeat to Ajax in the Champions League which brought the long run of success in that competition to an end, all within the space of a week - his former teammate Santiago Solari (who himself had only been in the post for five months, after Julen Lopetegui's equally brief spell in charge) was dismissed and Zidane returned as the Real Madrid head coach on 11 March 2019, on a contract until summer 2022.
Over the next four years she played many more major Shakespearean roles: Anne Boleyn in "Henry VIII" in 1950; Calpurnia in "Julius Caesar" opposite Anthony Quayle and Michael Langham in 1950; Hero, opposite John Gielgud and Peggy Ashcroft in 1950; Lady Percy in "Henry IV," opposite John Kidd, Anthony Quayle and Michael Redgrave in 1951; Isabel opposite Richard Burton in "Henry V," in 1951; Desdemona to Anthony Quayle's "Othello" in 1952; Rosalind in "As You Like It" (New Zealand Tour, 1953); Lady Percy in "Henry IV, Part 1" (New Zealand Tour and International Tour, 1953); Hippolyta in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in 1954; Kate to Keith Michell's Petruchio in "The Taming of the Shrew" in 1954; and Helen in "Troilus and Cressida" in 1954.
The Court is unanimously of opinion, that the appellate power of the Supreme Court of the United States does not extend to this Court, under a sound construction of the Constitution of the United States; that so much of the 25th section of the act of Congress to establish the judicial courts of the United States, as extends the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to this Court, is not in pursuance of the Constitution of the United States; that the writ of error in this cause was improvidently allowed under the authority of that act; that the proceedings thereon in the Supreme Court were coram non judice in relation to this Court, and that obedience to its mandate be declined by the Court.
The situation changed when King Louis XIV finally came of age, ending the long and chaotic Regency during his minority, and in 1663 one of his first major acts as a reigning monarch was to dissolve both the Company of One Hundred Associates and the Company of Habitants, shifting the fur trading rights of North America to the French West India Company, taking direct control of New France as a Province of the Realm, and subsequently deploying the Carignan-Salières Regiment to Canada in 1665 (the first European Regular unit deployed to the Western Hemisphere) to deal with the Dutch and English-backed Iroquois menace once and for all, actions which substantially increased the stability and development of the Colony of Canada in the following decades.
Packer has also been interviewed after being the first, or one of the first, in line to, among other things, buy copies of Donald Trump's book "Think Big and Kick Ass" in New York City in 2007, buy soup at the newly-reopened The Original Soupman location in New York City in 2010, buy a meal at the first Sonic Drive-In location in Long Island in 2011, shop at a Best Buy location in New York City on Black Friday in 2011, attend the funeral of Whitney Houston in the public spectator area in Newark, New Jersey in 2012, buy tickets for a touring production of "Hamilton" in Hartford, Connecticut in 2018, and attend the memorial for George Floyd in Raeford, North Carolina in 2020.
In all these various formations our Coprolites form records of warfare, waged by successive generations of inhabitants of our planet on one another: the imperishable phosphate of lime, derived from their digested skeletons, has become embalmed in the substance and foundations of the everlasting hills; and the general law of Nature which bids all to eat and be eaten in their turn, is shown to have been co-extensive with animal existence on our globe; the Carnivora in each period of the world's history fulfilling their destined office, - to check excess in the progress of life, and maintain the balance of creation.
The phenomenological tie-in with the sociology of knowledge stems from two key historical sources for Mannheim's analysis: [1] Mannheim was dependent on insights derived from Husserl's phenomenological investigations, especially the theory of meaning as found in Husserl's Logical Investigations of 1900/1901 (Husserl:2000), in the formulation of his central methodological work: "On The Interpretation of Weltanschauung" (Mannheim:1993:see fn41 & fn43) - this essay forms the centerpiece for Mannheim's method of historical understanding and is central to his conception of the sociology of knowledge as a research program; and [2] The concept of "Weltanschauung" employed by Mannheim has its origins in the hermeneutic philosophy of Wilhelm Dilthey, who relied on Husserl's theory of meaning (above) for his methodological specification of the interpretive act (Mannheim: 1993: see fn38).
At this period, thirty cases of acute dysentery also occurred amongst them and although nineteen of the number were men who arrived in the island from Europe on the 1st and 12th of June, yet, the symptoms even in them were equally as mild as in the assimilated soldier, and the disease yielded to the common remedies - viz - bleeding when the state of the vascular system appeared to indicate the use of it, but in general, saline purgatives in small and repeated quantities were only necessary with small doses at bed time, of calomel and opium, infusion of ipecacuanha or Dover's powder, and this with tonics, moderate use of port wine and a light farinaceous diet generally and speedily accomplished a perfect case.
While much appreciated by users trained in and familiar with the weapon, and well received by customers who understood the mechanism, which was intended to result in a robust, accurate, reliable, and functional weapon when used with standard military (full metal jacket) ammunition, the anticipated civilian sales remained low while major official (police) sales never materialized: between the American military's selection of the Beretta 92F, coupled with European military and police forces' selection of the competing SIG-Sauer (P226 full-size and P228 compact high-capacity pistols - the latter adopted by the US Army as the M11) led to a cessation of manufacture of the Steyr GB in November 25, 1988 after a total production of between 15,000 and 20,000 pistols - most of them commercial models.
The Oxfordshire Economic Partnership (OEP) is a company limited by guarantee formed in June 2003 by a number of Oxfordshire business people including Sir Martin Wood, the founder of Oxford Instruments, Dr John McKeown, the Chief Executive of UKAEA together with senior public sector executives to influence and develop strategies for enterprise and economic development in Oxfordshire, to promote competitiveness of the economy in Oxfordshire, to promote enterprise and economic growth in Oxfordshire, to promote education and training of and the development of skills amongst the existing and future work force in Oxfordshire, to research and promote the sustenance and enhancement of the environment in Oxfordshire and generally to promote in any manner the County of Oxfordshire for the benefit of its employers, employees and communities.
"The provisions of this Constitutional Law that change and (or) otherwise affect the terms of office, the procedure and (or) conditions for the election (appointment) of public officials shall apply to persons holding these positions at the time of entry into force of this Constitutional Law, and these persons have the right to be elected (appointed) on an equal basis with other citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan to the specified positions in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Uzbekistan, including as amended by this Constitutional Law, and regardless of the number of terms in a row during which these persons held and (or) occupy these positions at the time of entry of this Constitutional Law into force," the document says.
In the post-credits scene of the 2016 video game "Mafia III," Lincoln Clay's former CIA handler in Vietnam and Lincoln's intelligence provider in order to take down the Marcano Crime Family, John Donovan, has been invited to a Senate Committee hearing in 1971 to testify his participation in Lincoln's revenge against the Marcanos, Donovan explains that he helped Lincoln was due to evidence that he uncovered that Sal, the boss of the Marcano Crime family, has been one of the conspirators of the assassination of Kennedy, and further evidence states that one of the senators presiding over the hearing as another conspirator, Donovan then later pulls his silenced pistol and kills the senator, stating that he will hunt down those responsible for the death of Kennedy.
Simon Phipps (Sun's Chief Open Source Officer at the time), who had introduced Cooper as "the one who actually wrote the CDDL," did not immediately comment, but later in the same video, he says, referring back to the license issue, "I actually disagree with Danese to some degree," while describing the strong preference among the engineers who wrote the code for a BSD-like license, which was in conflict with Sun's preference for something copyleft, and that waiting for legal clearance to release some parts of the code under the then unreleased GNU GPL v3 would have taken several years, and would probably also have involved mass resignations from engineers (unhappy with either the delay, the GPL, or both - this is not clear from the video).
Regional elections in Piedmont were ruled by the "Tatarella law" (approved in 1995), which provided for a mixed electoral system: four fifths of the regional councilors were elected in provincial constituencies by proportional representation, using the largest remainder method with a droop quota and open lists, while the residual votes and the unassigned seats were grouped into a "single regional constituency," where the whole ratios and the highest remainders were divided with the Hare method among the provincial party lists; one fifth of the council seats instead was reserved for regional lists and assigned with a majoritarian system: the leader of the regional list that scored the highest number of votes was elected to the presidency of the Region while the other candidates were elected regional councilors.
Following Vladimir's public designation of his daughter as "curatrix of the throne," in anticipation that she would eventually succeed him as head of the dynasty in exile, the heads of three of the other branches of the imperial family - the Princes Vsevolod Ioannovich (Konstantinovichi), Roman Petrovich (Nikolaevichi) and Andrei Alexandrovich (Mihailovichi) -- wrote to Vladimir in 1969, asserting that the dynastic status of his daughter was no different from that of their own children (Vsevolod Ioannovich was childless, but Roman Petrovich had two sons by Countess Prascovia Sheremetyev, while Andrei Alexandrovich had two sons by Donna Elisabeth Ruffo of a Russian branch of the Princes di San Sant' Antimo) and that his wife was of no higher status than the wives of the other Romanov princes.
Some of the foundation's current grantees include PlayPumps International, a nonprofit focused on improving the lives of children and their families through an innovative system that provides clean drinking water to rural African villages; City Year Washington, DC, an AmeriCorps organization that provides full-time, year-long service opportunities for young people through such initiatives as the Young Heroes service-learning program; Accelerate Brain Cancer Cure (ABC2), a nonprofit that incorporates an entrepreneurial, venture capital approach and new forms of collaboration to hasten the discovery of a cure for brain cancer; America's Promise, an alliance of organizations serving children and youth; the Buxton Initiative, a nonprofit focused on fostering understanding among people from different faiths and world views through friendship and dialog; and many other local, national, and international organizations.
The misconception of his involvement seems to stem from distortion of history in certain cases namely, in the books titled The Goa Inquisition by Anant Priolkar (large parts of the books have been declared baseless by a 783 page report compiled from historical government and Vatican records by the University of La Sapienza), which gives a semi-fictitious report of the events relating to the Conquest of Goa, wrongfully stating that Afonso de Albuquerque attacked Goa to massacre the Hindus, though it is well establish his conquest was at the behest of the Hindu Vijayanagar Empire, and along with Timoji targeted the Bahmani Muslims residing in Goa, so much so that the death of Albuquerque was greatly mourned by the Hindu burghers as a liberator from the Muslim rule.
Each character slowly reveals problems in their lives and relationships - Billy, a reluctant father trapped in an unstable marriage, has difficulty adjusting from his frat boy lifestyle, Wendy has a hard time getting over her feelings for Billy and staying independent from her family's business, Leslie is pressured by Alec into marrying him, but she feels they aren't ready and wants to focus on her career first, Kirby obsesses over gaining Dale's affections, Kevin is bitter over love and is struggling at his writing job, Jules is in debt while stressing over paying for her second stepmother who's on her deathbed, and during a private moment with Kevin, Alec confesses he recently had sex with a lingerie saleswoman and believes that marrying Leslie will keep him faithful.
The evidence of the defendants also showed that they had commenced work upon the claim about July 21, 1880, and sank and excavated an open cut, striking the vein or lode at the depth of ten feet or more, and exposed therein a vein of rock in place bearing gold and silver; that no mineral nor any indications of a vein or lode were found until they reached the depth of seven or eight feet, and that subsequently, and within the time limited by law, they marked the bounds of their claim on said lode, called by them the "Johnny Bull Lode" and recorded a location certificate, describing their claim by reference to natural objects and permanent landmarks and complying in all respects with the requirements of the law.
The question now before us is simply whether, when it is in our power to teach this language, we shall teach languages, by which, by universal confession, there are not books on any subject which deserve to be compared to our own; whether, when we can teach European science, we shall teach systems which, by universal confession, whenever they differ from those of Europe, differ for the worse; and whether, when we can patronise sound Philosophy and true History, we shall countenance, at the public expense, medical doctrines, which would disgrace an English farrier, --Astronomy, which would move laughter in girls at an English boarding school,--History, abounding with kings thirty feet high, and reigns thirty thousand years long,--and Geography, made up of seas of treacle and seas of butter.
Dickens opens the novel with a sentence that has become famous:It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way - in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.
Among the other significant events in foreign affairs during the Ramos years were the adoption by ASEAN in 1992, upon Philippine initiative, of the Declaration on the South China Sea, aimed at confidence-building and the avoidance of conflict among claimant states; the establishment of the Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines (BIMP) -East Asia Growth area in 1994; the establishment of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) in 1994 as the only multilateral security dialogue in the Asia-Pacific region conducted at the government level, and the signing between the Philippine Government and the MNLF on September 2, 1996 of the Mindanao Peace Agreement.
The patient is to be treated with respect; not put to work (with the exception that those accustomed to such work may be expected to help in cleaning); no physical pain to be inflicted under any circumstance - and the director shall be vigilantly observant of this; the application of restraints, often necessary in the treatment of mania, must be applied in accord with humanitarian and hygienic practices; patients are to have access to the grounds to walk, play, or exercise; they are to be bathed regularly, even if they must be tied down while this is being done; they will be fed in their closed rooms while observed through a small grated window; visiting by friends or family is extremely unwise - when it occurs, it must be closely supervised.
On 16 June 2008, Cheong Chun Yin, a 24-year-old Malaysian, and his accomplice Pang Siew Fum were both arrested for the trafficking of 2,726g of heroin into Singapore from Myanmar, and both of them were found guilty and sentenced to death by hanging in 2010 by Choo Han Teck, who found that the duo had indeed have the intention to traffic the drugs and although they tried to say they believed they were carrying valuables and not drugs, Choo stated it was not to be believed as they did not make steps to ensure if they were carrying drugs and had not reported to their bosses that their intended items were not in the bags, which would have meant that they knew they carried drugs and hence they should face the gallows.
Other recommendations of the Commission asking for a "curtailment of the type of industrial work found on schools" and the elimination of the General Sales Department that had been set up to distribute the sale of items made in schools, pushed the implementation of several changes in the educational system to try to prioritize on the instruction of the pupils to be taught over the teaching of "industrial" education that until then had been focusing on the production of handicrafts such as basketry for boys and embroidery for girls, farming techniques, and other skills deemed favorable for the future of the pupils.
In this first new-style episode, Tim wakes up in the middle of the night, brushes his teeth and pours himself a bowl of corn flakes (but has to wait until the morning for the milk), Little Juan wakes up all the other villagers because he does not know that a fiesta is held in the evening (rather than the morning or the afternoon), the residents of the Dolls' House take turns in getting their meals ready and Bill takes a Polaroid of both himself and his new co-star Bernie (who came in covered in mud, so he has to give her a bath before taking another one), but Bill got himself covered in mud while trying to get her in the bath, so she takes another Polaroid of him to show him.
The major features of the New Look included greater reliance on nuclear weapons, using the advantage the United States had over the Soviet Union in such weapons; elevation of strategic air power, the major means to deliver nuclear weapons, to a more important position (not an expansion in the number of Air Force aircraft but rather development and production of better equipment); reductions of conventional ground forces, based both on reliance on strategic and tactical nuclear weapons and the expectation that US allies would provide ground troops for their own defense; an expanded program of continental defense, which, along with strategic air power, would serve as a principal ingredient of the New Look's deterrence program; and modernization and enlargement of reserve forces, enhancing the military manpower base while reducing active duty forces.
One of the key focus points of AMA is to inspire the act of giving, when you think about it, the whole concept is that we want people to understand that it is important to empower the next generation, to develop leadership, to develop young people and to develop their thinking and their mindset for a world that didn't exist 30 years ago, back then the world was a different place but now we have to adapt to the changing times and the changing landscape around us, grow, change and develop, the youth that we are working with currently are going to be experiencing a very different world in another few years from now, therefore we need to be thinking about that, in preparing the youth for a world 30 years from now.
During his time in office, Ayrault and his ministers introduced a raft of progressive measures, including a reduction in the retirement age from 62 to 60 for some categories of workers, cuts in ministerial salaries of up to 30%, a rise in the minimum wage, the introduction of a 36-month rent freeze on new contracts in some urban areas, an extension of social rebates on energy, increased educational support for low-income families, the introduction of a system of subsidised employment for young people between 16 and 25, and the extension of an entitlement to free health care to an additional 500,000 people.
Focusing in television during the 1980s, Montenegro's film exposure was limited throughout the remaining of the decade, but she still participated in a minor role as Carlota, a religious practitioner of Umbanda (a syncretic belief system very popular in Brazil), in 1985's "A Hora da Estrela" (internationally known as "Hour of the Star"), a movie that was lauded by critics both domestically - snatching six Candango Trophies in the Brasília Festival of Brazilian Cinema, including Best Film, Director, Actor (José Dumont) and Actress (Marcélia Cartaxo) and, internationally, earning the Grand Coral First Prize in the Havana Film Festival, as well as three major awards in the Berlin Film Festival: the International Confederation of Art House Cinemas Award, the OCIC Award and the Silver Berlin Bear for Best Actress (awarded to fellow co-star Marcélia Cartaxo).
On April 17, 2020, Gray filed a petition with the FCC to restore the station's license, arguing by re-tuning KVLY's backup transmitter and relaunching KCPM using that equipment at a minimum price without further tower work, the station could provide extended coverage of the local impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, local telecourses from the area's school districts, and extended public affairs programming; the petition also mentions a possibility of affiliating KCPM-DT1 as a primary affiliate of Gray's subchannel network Circle (as of late, Gray has pushed their MyNetworkTV affiliates to carry the service's programming in the graveyard slot in a number of markets, reducing it to a secondary affiliation), along with providing expanded news coverage specific to Grand Forks after WDAZ-TV discontinued their Grand Forks newscasts in 2018 to only carry those of Fargo's WDAY-TV.
For the 2019 general election, the party's manifesto had four key sections: "remain and transform," which advocated for the UK to reverse its decision to leave the EU and increase cross-border co-operation with the EU; "grow democracy," which aimed to overhaul the UK's current voting system and rebalance government power by lowering the voting age from 18 to 16 and redefining the jurisdiction of local governments; the "green quality of life guarantee," which addressed social issues such as housing, the NHS, education, countryside conservation, discrimination, crime, drug reform, animal rights, and the implementation of a universal basic income; and the "new deal for tax and spend," which outlined the party's economic policies such as simplifying income tax, increasing corporation tax to make big businesses pay their fair share, supporting small business, and ending wasteful spending.
Participants of each school are given a list of chapters to study from October to February, when the first round takes place in the Universidad Hebraica, everyone can participate from his or her school, but after the 50 question exam, only around 16 people will survive for the next round, this one takes place a few days later, in this case, the 16 winners go to the school of the person who won the last year, where the points of the first round are not erased and where they are given a Passuk with 2 questions (8 points each), and after that a page with 10 questions (8 out of 10 worth 2 points each, and the other 2 worth 4 points), at the end the 3 people with the highest score go to Israel.
The PhilID can be used in all transactions requiring proof or verification of citizens or resident aliens' identity, such as, but not limited to the following: application for eligibility and access to social welfare and benefits granted by the government; application for services and benefits offered by GSIS, SSS, PhilHealth, HDMF, and other government agencies; applications for passports and driver's license; tax-related transactions; registration and voting identification purposes; admission to any government hospital, health center or similar institution; all other government transactions; application for admission in schools, colleges, learning institutions and universities, whether public or private; application and transaction for employment purposes; opening of bank accounts and other transactions with banks and other financial institutions; verification of cardholder's criminal records and clearances; such other transactions, uses or purposes, as may be defined in the IRR.
The CA has the mission of supporting the exercise of command from the part of the CEMFA, in view of the preparation, the readying and the sustenance of the forces and means of the operational component of the system of forces, of the accomplishment of the missions regulated by particular legislation and other missions given to the Air Force, keeping the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces permanently informed of the employed forces and means and of the development and results of their respective operations, of the planning, command and control the air activity, of the administration and management of the units and bodies of the fixed component placed under its direct dependence and of the planning, guidance and control of the military security of the units and bodies of the Air Force.
WIAT serves as the "de facto" flagship station of Alabama Crimson Tide athletics, due to CBS's broadcast rights to Southeastern Conference football and basketball games, and a deal between the station and the University of Alabama in which channel 42 serves as the primary broadcast partner for all team-related programming including the Tide coaches' show, "The Nick Saban Football Show," the magazine program "Tide TV This Week" (most other Tide-related programs produced by the university's Tide TV production unit are broadcast in the market on university-owned Cozi TV affiliate WVUA-CD [channel 7] and its satellite WVUA [channel 23] in Tuscaloosa); the station also produces locally produced Tide-related programs under the umbrella title "Red Zone," consisting of a weekly analysis program on Friday and Saturday nights as well as pre-game and post-game shows during the college football season.
In 1925, it was suggested that "Frobisher" and "Effingham" could be rearmed to carry six guns in the same modern twin-turrets used on the new County-class cruisers then building, giving ships of comparable firepower for a fraction of the cost, and a similar reconstruction of the partially coal-fired "Hawkins" could also be used to upgrade her boilers ("Vindictive" was excluded as her aircraft catapult was considered a valuable asset); but the proposal was rejected - the existing turret design produced for the new cruisers could not be used in the aft position on the older ships, their protection against long-range gunfire was weak, there were concerns with staying within the 10,000-ton weight limit, and the Admiralty reported that it would be difficult and costly to find substitutes to take over their duties while they were being rebuilt.
So, in just over a year from the acquisition, were placed on the market the first new products such as models Adiva (in the displacement 125 and 150) equipped with rigid canopy foldable in the trunk (first scooter in the world to be equipped with this mechanism, then copied by the competition), the Velvet (in the displacement 125, 150, 250, 400) which remained in the list until 2012, the 491, very popular among fourteen-year-olds of the time, that mounted a rare horizontal Morini engine of 50 cm3 at 2 times with liquid cooling and that made it one of the most performing of the lot, the K2 (50 and 100 cm3) and the Pepe (of 50 cm3 then became the best-selling Benelli scooter in recent years); the latter, powered by a Minarelli engine, had a good commercial success.
John West also states that they do not sell endangered or critically endangered species from the International Union Conservation of Nature Red List, have never sold blue fin tuna, which is the subject of numerous campaigns from Non-Governmental Organizations due to its endangered status from overfishing, that all seafood products are caught in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and are not bought from IUU (Illegal, Unreported, Unregulated) vessels, neither does it buy any fish that has been transshipped at sea, caught by long-line fishing or drift nets, caught by boats from any flag state which is not a member of the relevant Regional Fisheries Management Organisation (RFMO), caught by fishing vessels which do not ban shark finning, or caught by vessels which do not have a European Union sanitary agreement.
The United States being anxious to promote peace, friendship and intercourse with the Osage tribes, to afford them every assistance in their power, and to protect them from the insults and injuries of other tribes of Indians, situated near the settlements of the white people, have thought proper to build a fort on the right bank of the Missouri, a few miles above the Fire Prairie, and do agree to garrison the same with as many regular troops as the President of the United States may, from time to time, deem necessary for the protection of all orderly, friendly and well disposed Indians of the Great and Little Osage nations, who reside at this place, and who do strictly conform to, and pursue the counsels or admonitions of the President of the United States through his subordinate officers.
According to fundamental rules (FR 17A) of the civil service of India, a period of unauthorised absence- (i) in the case of employees working in industrial establishments, during a strike which has been declared illegal under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, or any other law for the time being in force; (ii) in the case of other employees as a result of action in combination or in concerted manner, such as during a strike, without any authority from, or valid reason to the satisfaction of the competent authority; shall be deemed to cause an interruption or break in the service of the employee, unless otherwise decided by the competent authority for the purpose of leave travel concession, quasi-permanency and eligibility for appearing in departmental examinations, for which a minimum period of continuous service is required.
In 2011, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture (Council of Europe) has published its report on its 2007 visit to Estonia, stating that many of the persons detained by the police in connection with the April 2007 events in Tallinn were not granted all the fundamental safeguards (the right of those concerned to inform a close relative or another third party of their choice of their situation, the right of access to a lawyer, and the right of access to a doctor) from the outset of their detention: while many of the persons concerned were allowed to contact someone and to be assisted by a lawyer only when brought before a judge, a number of detained persons claimed that their requests to see a doctor whilst in police custody had been denied, even when they displayed visible injuries.
The board is empowered to specify the courses of instruction and create syllabi for them, and to select textbooks for the elementary, and secondary schools and for the higher secondary (school gradation) school examinations; to conduct public examinations and publish the results at the secondary school and higher secondary levels; to grant diplomas or certificates to people who have passed its examinations; to recognize educational institutions at the secondary school and higher secondary levels, and conduct inspections of recognized institutions, ensuring that required facilitates, equipment, and staff are in place, that only the approved books and courses are taught, and that the standards are in accord with the relevant regulations; to remove recognition from schools that do not meet the proper conditions; to supervise and control the recognized institutions; and exercise various other powers given to it by law.
The history of the communist movement in Cambodia can be divided into six phases, namely the emergence before World War II of the Indochinese Communist Party (ICP), whose members were almost exclusively Vietnamese; the 10-year struggle for independence from the French, when a separate Cambodian communist party, the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP), was established under Vietnamese auspices; the period following the Second Party Congress of the KPRP in 1960, when Saloth Sar gained control of its apparatus; the revolutionary struggle from the initiation of the Khmer Rouge insurgency in 1967-1968 to the fall of the Lon Nol government in April 1975; the Democratic Kampuchea regime from April 1975 to January 1979; and the period following the Third Party Congress of the KPRP in January 1979, when Hanoi effectively assumed control over Cambodia's government and communist party.
The present Government of Paraguay being overthrown, the Allies will proceed to make the necessary arrangements with the authority constituted, to insure the free navigation of the Rivers Parana and Paraguay, in such manner that the regulations or laws of that Republic shall not obstruct, hinder nor burthen the transit and direct navigation of the merchantmen and vessels-of-war of the allied States proceeding to their respective territory, or to territory not belonging to Paraguay, and they will take suitable guarantees for the effectiveness of those arrangements on the base that those regulations of fluvial police, whether they be for those two rivers or likewise for the River Uruguay, shall be made by common accord between the allies and such other bordering States as shall, within the term to be agreed upon by the said allies, accept the invitation made to them.
Though the Kingdom of Prussia was a member of the German Confederation established by the Congress of Vienna as a replacement for the dissolved Holy Roman Empire from 1815 to 1866, only those of the territories of the kingdom which were previously included in the HRE as well as the Lauenburg and Bütow Land and the former Starostwo of Draheim (both integrated into the Province of Pomerania) became part of the Confederation, while the Grand Duchy of Posen (later demoted to an ordinary Province of Posen following the failed Greater Poland uprising (1848)), the Provinces of West Prussia and East Prussia (merged in the years 1829 to 1878 to form a single Province of Prussia) remained outside of the German Confederation (thus of Germany) until the creation of the North German Confederation in 1866 at the start of the unification of Germany.
Her missions included aiding earthquake victims in Volos Greece in 1955; supporting Eastern Mediterranean US coastal operations during the 1956 War between Israel and Egypt, and during the Lebanese crisis in 1958; participation in the Cuban Quarantine-Blockade in 1962; the pursuit of the hijacked Venezuelan freighter SS "Anzoategui" in 1963; coastal operations off the Dominican Republic and evacuation of American citizens during that county's revolution in 1965; participation in the search for the USS "Scorpion" in 1968; shadowing the Soviet Mediterranean Fleet during 1970-71, including intelligence gathering on the new Moskva class Soviet Helo-Guided Missile Cruiser-Carriers, and special operations in the Black Sea; coastal support operations off Crete during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974; additional Black Sea operations during her extended 1972-1975 deployment; and continuous escort and defense operations with US carrier task forces in the Atlantic, Caribbean, and Mediterranean.
When Sultan Muhammad Shah Lohani, the Pathan king of Bihar of the new dynasty, died, some time after Babur's expedition to Chanderi, he was succeeded by his son Sultan Jalal ud-Din Lohani, a minor, and the chief management of affairs at least in Bihar then devolved on that prince's mother Dudu and on Farid Khan, better known as Sher Shah Suri, who had already risen into distinction; that the country was distracted by the rival claims of the Lohani nobles related to the young king, of Baban and Bayezid whose influence was very extensive, of Sher Shah Suri and of other chiefs, and that these factions added to the effects of the discomfiture which the Pathans received in the preceding campaigns from the armies of Babur at length induced the young prince to take refuge in the territories of the Sultan of Bengal.
Bailey says that LST, perhaps the "most integrative" social systems theory, has made many more contributions that may be easily overlooked, such as: providing a detailed analysis of types of systems; making a distinction between concrete and abstracted systems; discussion of physical space and time; placing emphasis on information processing; providing an analysis of entropy; recognition of totipotential systems, and party potential systems; providing an innovative approach to the structure-process issue; and introducing the concept of joint subsystem - a subsystem that belongs to two systems simultaneously; of dispersal - lateral, outward, upward, and downward; of inclusion - inclusion of something from the environment that is not part of the system; of artifact - an animal-made or human-made inclusion; of adjustment process, which combats stress in a system; and of critical subsystems, which carry out processes that all living systems need to survive.
Amongst the names on display are a pre-eminent English author, two bishops and 13 South African senators; a Chief Justice of old Natal, three Attorneys General and 10 judges (including a former member of the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein); the general officers commanding the Rhodesian Army and the South African Air Force; five other generals, two admirals and the Commissioner of the British South Africa Police (BSAP) in the former Rhodesia; eight Officers Commanding of the Natal Carbineers alone; 23 Rhodes scholars and scores of academics of distinction, including professors at Harvard and Yale; two Chancellors of the University of Natal and three Directors of Education; numerous Members of Parliament; two Emmy Award-winning cameramen and a winner of the Polar Medal; as well as the founder of Rand Merchant Bank and subsequent CEO of FirstRand Bank and the current CEO of Nedbank.
Since then, six other former ST Engineering Marine senior executives were implicated in the corruption scandal, including former financial controller and senior vice-president of finance Ong Tek Liam who pleaded guilty to ten out of 118 charges in relating to the falsification of accounts, former senior vice-president Mok Kim Whang who pleaded guilty to 49 out of 826 corruption charges, ex-chief operating officer Han Yew Kwang who pleaded guilty to 50 out of 407 charges and was sentenced to six months' jail and fined $80,000, former president of commercial business Tan Mong Seng who faced 445 corruption charges and was sentenced to 16 weeks' jail, and ex-financial controller Patrick Lee Swee Ching who pled guilty to seven of 38 charges of conspiring with others between 2004 and 2007 to make false entries in petty cash vouchers, and was given the maximum fine of $210,000.
Enfield recommended a number of changes: the barrel cover be fitted with a continuous length of tubing and a wooden forend, allowing the weapon to dispense with the rest, which was criticized for its fragility; a corrugated metal cover be fitted to the body, with a dust shield over the bolt handle; the magazine mouth be bevelled to ease feeding; the magazine be made of thinner metal to reduce its excessive weight; the breech cover not extend so far back to prevent injury to the firer; strengthen the extractor to prevent failures to feed with thick-rimmed cases (one of the few feeding problems noted); the hand-cocking lever be deleted [a puzzle as the weapons still has to be cocked for the first shot], also removing eight new parts; and the barrel casing be made in one piece, to eliminate a minor double failure issue.
Their strict, fundamentalist interpretation of the Bible supported them through the Great Trek of the 19th century; battles against Zulu and other Bantu tribes, who also laid claim to lands to the north; the Anglo-Boer War (when after the British won the war on the conventional battlefield and took all the main Boer towns and cities, a few Boer commandos of a few hundred Afrikaner farmers continued to hold out in isolated pockets of the veld until the cessation of hostilities, despite tens of thousands of British regulars combing the countryside in pursuit of them); and their institution of Apartheid in the 20th century, when they insisted on racial purity, separatism, and white supremacy, per the moral expectations of the God of Israel in the Old Testament and their own determination to keep political power in the hands of White Africans of European descent.
A person who is a citizen of Pakistan, is enrolled as a voter in any electoral roll under the Electoral Rolls Act 1974 and in case of National/Provincial Assemblies is not less than 25 years of age and in case of Senate not less than 30 years of age, is of good character and is not commonly known as one who violates Islamic injunctions, has adequate knowledge of Islamic teachings and practices, obligatory duties prescribed by Islam as well as abstains from major sin, is sagacious, righteous and non-profligate, honest and ameen, has not been convicted for a crime involving moral turpitude or for giving false evidence, and has not, after establishment of Pakistan, worked against the integrity of the country or opposed the ideology of Pakistan and is graduate, can contest the elections and become a member of the Parliament or a Provincial Assembly.
Wanting the Pope to allay the discords between the potentates of Italy, he wrote to the Venetians that he had to return everything they had occupied to the Duke of Ferrara, but they refused to do so and despite the Pope having abandoned them, they stubbornly pursued the war, and for more astonished King Ferrante, they called in Italy the Duke of Lorraine, pretender to the throne of Naples by virtue of his ties with the Angevins, hoping that the duke would meet that of Milan who was camped in the countryside of Rome to convince him to ally with the Venetians; but their plan failed because while that war lasted, it was administered by the duke with so much virtue and fortune, that if Ludovico Duke of Milan did not disband from the league, he would have taken away all the mainland from the Venetians.
Both nations have signed several agreements such as a Trade and Navigation Treaty (1911); Agreement on Military Service (1959); Agreement for Economic, Industrial and Scientific Cooperation (1994); Agreement on Technical and Cultural Cooperation (1994); Agreement for the Promotion and Protection of Investments and its Protocol (1995); Agreement of Cooperation in the fight against Terrorism, Organized Crime and Drug Trafficking (1996); Agreement on Cultural Collaboration and its executive protocols (1997); Antarctic Cooperation Agreement (2001); Agreement of technical cooperation and mutual assistance between the Carabineros de Chile and the Italian Carabinieri (2006); Mutual Assistance Treaty in Criminal Matters (2011); Cinematographic Co-Production Agreement (2013); Agreement of Cooperation in the Defense sector (2016); Agreement to Eliminate Double Taxation in Relation to Income Taxes and to Prevent Tax Evasion and its Protocol (2016); Mutual Administrative Assistance Agreement for the Prevention, Investigation and Repression of Customs Offenses (2017) and an Extradition Treaty (2017).
One can only speculate on the type of commercial customer (excluding the military users) that would have purchased the Colt 1902 Sporting and Military Models: perhaps wealthier hunters, fishermen, and adventurers who visited remote areas of the wilderness; businesses, especially those with Latin American offices and projects in remote areas such as mining interests in the US as they had significant and occasional labor unrest (often with very good cause) in the early 20th century; the more modern leaning police of the era who might have evaluated the pistols (no known significant police sales); perhaps shopkeepers who preferred the flat pistol for the counter shelf plus the imposing long barrel and superior rate of fire over robber's revolvers; perhaps those who just liked the look and selected the pistol for personal defense or the home; and of course the casual owners and shooters who liked the novelty.
Particularly radical is the view of the Sraffian school on this issue: the labour demand curve cannot be determined hence a level of wages ensuring the equality between supply and demand for labour does not exist, and economics should resume the viewpoint of the classical economists, according to whom competition in labour markets does not and cannot mean indefinite price flexibility as long as supply and demand are unequal, it only means a tendency to equality of wages for similar work, but the level of wages is necessarily determined by complex sociopolitical elements; custom, feelings of justice, informal allegiances to classes, as well as overt coalitions such as trade unions, far from being impediments to a smooth working of labour markets that would be able to determine wages even without these elements, are on the contrary indispensable because without them there would be no way to determine wages.
The film also traces the divergent paths taken by his former inmates at Rosaspina (actual name "Malaspina"), such as "Marilyn "Mery" Libassi," who resumes her previous career as a trans prostitute while awaiting trial for her self defense assault on a client; "Claudio Catalano," while seeking to avoid the vindictive "Carmelo Vella" (who blames Claudio for the loss of his left eye), obtains work as a mechanic in another neighbourhood, but shortly afterwards discovers his girlfriend, "Vita" is pregnant; "Antonino Patané" is forced to push drugs in order to maintain his two small children after the financial police sequester his potatoes which Antonino was selling without a license; and "Giovanni Trapani," nicknamed "King Kong" and a member of Natale's gang, is fatally shot by a plainclothes police officer outside the open-air market of Vucciria after a long chase through the streets of Palermo for having robbed a car radio.
Regarding Jean-Francois Lefebvre, chevalier de La Barre, we declare him convicted of having taught to sing and sung impious, execrable and blasphemous songs against God; of having profaned the sign of the cross in making blessings accompanied by foul words which modesty does not permit repeating; of having knowingly refused the signs of respect to the Holy Sacrament carried in procession by the priory of Saint-Pierre; of having shown these signs of adoration to foul and abominable books that he had in his room; of having profaned the mystery of the consecration of wine, having mocked it, in pronouncing the impure terms mentioned in the trial record over a glass of wine which he held in his hand and then drunken the wine; of having finally proposed to Petignat, who was serving mass with him, to bless the cruets while pronouncing the impure words mentioned in the trial record.
In the cockpit, the model has electrically adjustable sports seats in leather/Alcantara combination upholstery with side sections and integrated head restraints (optional bucket seats with more prominent contours and folding backrests, ventilated and luxuriously upholstered climate-controlled comfort seats; optional seat upholstery featuring special leathers and colors as well as silver headlining), steering wheel upholstered in perforated leather, black gauges with white lettering and distinctive scaling, driver information system with integrated lap timer and an oil temperature gauge, black interior with decorative inlays made of carbon fiber (optional dark stainless-steel mesh, black piano finish or brushed aluminum inlay), instrument panel fascia in piano finish, pedals, footrests, optional MMI navigation systems' control buttons in aluminum; door handles with two slim strips, aluminum inserts at door sill trims and RS 5 logos, optional suede-covered controls and floor mats bearing RS 5 logos, sport exhaust system with a sound flap and black tailpipe trims.
In the first novel of the sequence, "The Gaudy," Pattullo returns to his Oxford College, after a long absence (and a successful career as a playwright, including extended residence abroad), and encounters a number of old friends, including Albert Talbert, his former tutor in English Literature; Lord Marchpayne, formerly Tony Mumford (an undergraduate contemporary who lived in the set of rooms opposite his); fellow Scot and schoolmate Ranald McKechnie, now Regius Professor of Greek at the college (McKechnie's wife, Janet, is Duncan's first love); Cyril Bedworth (now the college's Senior Tutor but formerly an undergraduate friend who lived at the top of Pattullo's staircase); and Robert Damien (College doctor, but also a contemporary of Pattullo's who embarrassed him by replacing the sketch for a famous painting that he owned with a bawdy picture of Mumford's at exactly the point when the great and the good had assembled to view it).
Walker filed his answer alleging that he came to Illinois at the request of Flagg and his wife, and upon examination of Flagg's affairs found that he was deeply in debt; that his real estate was heavily encumbered, and that he owed a large floating debt and was out of funds, and that all of his property was likely to be taken from him if it should be forced to sale, but that, after a full investigation, he became satisfied that Flagg's property, with good management, was worth more than his indebtedness, and that he proposed that Flagg should convey all his property to him, and let him manage his business for him; that Walker agreed that he would take the property without any future right of control, management, or ownership remaining in Flagg, and would pay off the debts of Flagg specified in a list furnished to him by Flagg.
On Halloween night, Granny is shopping for candy at a local grocery store - when she leaves to head home, she starts explaining to the audience that she is preparing for when troublesome kids, or, as she prefers to call them, "juvenile delinquents," come to her home for Halloween treats from her before her explanation is stopped by two kids in costumes appearing out of nowhere and scaring her into running away, leaving her calling out for police as she runs; the store's next customer is an armed robber who is disguised in a blouse and skirt identical to what Granny is wearing which means the store cashier is left in confusion about this change in behaviour after the thief steals every trace of money - policemen Daffy and Porky are given the suspect's description and attempt a chase to catch the robber and end his mischief once and for all.
Viewing the history of the world as the history of warfare between secret societies, conspiracy theorists go further than Rothkopf, and other scholars who have studied the global power elite, by claiming that established upper-class families with "old money" who founded and finance the Bilderberg Group, Bohemian Club, Club of Rome, Council on Foreign Relations, Rhodes Trust, Skull and Bones, Trilateral Commission, and similar think tanks and private clubs, are illuminated conspirators plotting to impose a totalitarian New World Order - the implementation of an authoritarian world government controlled by the United Nations and a global central bank, which maintains political power through the financialization of the economy, regulation and restriction of speech through the concentration of media ownership, mass surveillance, widespread use of state terrorism, and an all-encompassing propaganda that creates a cult of personality around a puppet world leader and ideologizes world government as the culmination of history's progress.
Significantly, in 2002, the Mutual Fund Directors Forum applied for and received an exemptive order from the SEC allowing the payment by mutual funds, pursuant to the authorization of their boards of directors, of the dues of their independent directors for membership in the Forum, as well as Forum-related expenses; and finding that these payments do not violate Section 17 (d) and Rule 17d-1 of the "Investment Company Act" of 1940, which prohibit funds from participating in joint transactions with affiliated persons on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of any other participant.
Making that Vow On Sunday morning, before the commencement of religion, the Chief Commander sent those (Cilliers, Landman and Joubert - see below) who would practice the religion to come to Malkander, and asked them, to speak to the congregation, that all of them mightily persevere in spirit and in truth, praying to God for His help and assistance in striking the enemy; that he wanted to make a vow to the Almighty, (if all would like to), - "so that the Lord may give us the victory, to establish a House of Remembrance of his Great Name, where it will please Him," - and that they also had to plead, the help and assistance of God, to be able to fulfill this vow surely, and that we will record the day of victory, in a book, to make it known, even to our last descendants, that The glory of God may be celebrated.
Many years later, he created a panel for the commemoration of the centenary of the death of Joe Petrosino 1860 - 1909, (oil on panel 30 x 40), donated to the museum dedicated to the first excellent victim of the mafia "The Joe Petrosino International Association" Padula (SA), Little Italy, New York (2009), and to follow, the theme of legality leads Crivello to design and direct a theatrical work "Joe Petrosino commemoration" in Bisacquino (PA), right in the country of Vito Cascio Ferro, probative client and perpetrator of the murder, where a street dedicated to Joe Petrosino is dedicated - theatrical performance takes place in the open, and then the film project of reconstructions of the excellent murders of mafia, performs a commemorative work dedicated to the murder Joe Petrosino, screenplay, story board and direction, with the patronage and support of the Order and the Urban Police of the city of Palermo in 2011.
Geographically it stretches from the white cliffs of the Royal National Park and its northern hilly ridge formations like Bulgo and Otford Hills and Stony Batter, Undola Ridge and Bald Hill, south past the Otford Valley to the west and around an eroded valley containing Stanwell Park, then it goes south, featuring cliffs and running close to the coastal headlands, approximately above sea level at Scarborough to the turn at Sublime Point at near Thirroul, south to Brokers Nose at promontory, south to Mount Keira, which juts out from the main cliffs, south to a similar eroded sandstone outcrop, Mount Kembla at, then southwest along the Dapto scarp cliffs including Mount Bong Bong to the turn inland at Macquarie Pass, then back east to the promontory at Knights Hill at, south including Jamberoo Mountain and east to Noorinan Mountain promontory at Barren Grounds Plateau, then along a ridge to its southern tip, Saddleback Mountain.
Dillinger and Van Meter resided at Probasco's home until the last week of June 1934; that on some occasions they would be away for a day or two, sometimes leaving separately, and on other occasions together; that at this time Van Meter usually parked his car in the rear of Probasco's residence outside the back fence; that she gathered that Dillinger was keeping company with a young woman who lived on the north side of Chicago, inasmuch as he would state upon leaving Probasco's home that he was going in the direction of Diversey Boulevard; that Van Meter apparently was not acquainted with Dillinger's friend, and she heard him warning Dillinger to be careful about striking up acquaintances with girls he knew nothing about; that Dillinger and Van Meter usually kept a machine gun in an open case under the piano in the parlor; that they also kept a shotgun under the parlor table.
In this way, Humberto provides the possibility of duplicity of narrative voices within the same character, and thus two subjective perspectives of the same reality: on the one hand, the narrative can be interpreted simply and realistically in terms of its context, in which Humberto Peñaloza, a middle-class law student and writer, is trying to make his way through the ranks of the contemporary Chilean society, which was strictly divided according to class; on the other hand, the narrative can be interpreted in terms of its ambiguous and amorphous nature, in which identity itself is not defined, history is the result of myth and the boundaries between the material and psychological world are broken and in flux, therefore opposing the solidity and immutability of the physical world and established society, where individuals are forced to lose part of their identity and freedom in order to acquire a role in society and thus not be otherwise marginalised.
Ex-Japan import rolling stocks in all kinds is no exception on this list, although it can be considered as JDM but in special case since this was also intended for Japanese market which were mostly acquired by leading private railway companies across Japan such as Japan Railways, even subways such as Tokyo Metro, Tokyu Corporation, Toei Subway and so forth which was in demand for modernizing railway system in most developing countries such as Indonesia, Thailand, and Myanmar to acquire used trains from Japan rather than procuring brand-new rolling stocks, there are some cases that the management from each respective railway companies in Japan such as Japan Railways are decided to donate them to the oversea country, instead of scrapping them ahead in no time, which is really needed for a major upgrade and sign their agreement that the recipient of the oversea country will pay for its freight expenses and the rest will be free.
Some of the more common means of maintaining surface street traffic flow is the use of loop-sensors embedded in the pavement allowing for intersection traffic signal timing adjustments to favor the more heavily delayed roadways; the use of a traffic control system allows for the synchronization of traffic signals to improve traffic flow (as of October 2009 this system is currently installed at 85% of the city's signalized intersections, more than any other US city); restrictions on vehicle turns on roadways without designated turning lanes during rush-hours; and the extensive use of rush-hour parking restrictions, allowing for an extra lane of travel in each direction during peak hours (weekdays excluding holidays generally from 7-9am thru 4-7pm, although hours vary by location) by eliminating on street parking and standing of vehicles, with violators being ticketed, and in the case of priority routes known as "anti-gridlock zones," immediately towed by specialized enforcement teams dubbed "tiger teams" at steep cost to the violator.
Chelsea travelled to Bolton's Reebok Stadium on 30 April 2005 with the knowledge a win and all three points would crown them Champions of England for the first time in half a century, and despite a tense and goalless first-half, the second half saw Lampard win a battle against a defender for a high, bouncing ball just outside the penalty area before making space for a fierce right-foot drive to give Chelsea the lead after an hour gone; it was a lead Chelsea doubled as they countered from a Bolton corner fifteen minutes later, Lampard picking up Claude Makélélé's through ball and rounding goalkeeper Jussi Jääskeläinen, slotting into an empty net for his second goal of the game to seal a conclusive 2-0 win and the league title for the Blues - Mourinho's first in English football - as the Blues sat top of the league with a now-unassailable 11-point lead after 35 games at the end of April 2005.
Whereas His Majesty, having been pleased to direct that, in consideration of the early attachment to his cause manifested by the Mohawk Indians, and of the loss of their settlement which they thereby sustained, that a convenient tract of land under his protection should be chosen as a safe and comfortable retreat for them and others of the Five Nations, who have either lost their settlements within the Territory of the American States, or wish to retire from them to the British, I have at the earnest desire of many of these, His Majesty's faithful allies, purchased a tract of land from the Indians situated between the Lakes Ontario, Erie, and Huron, and I do hereby, in His Majesty's name, authorize and permit the said Mohawk Nation and such others of the Five Nation Indians as wish to settle in that quarter to take possession of and settle upon the banks of the river commonly called Ours [Ouse], or Grand River.
On 22 October 1494, Duke Gian Galeazzo died in mysterious circumstances: formally for not having followed the treatment prescribed by his personal doctors for an illness that had been dragging on for some time and for the immoderate life he led, but in the opinion of many prominent contemporaries, such as Machiavelli or Guicciardini, the person responsible for this death was his uncle Ludovico, for poisoning; Malaguzzi Valeri strongly disagrees with this opinion, pointing out how Ludovico was really interested in the approval of his nephew, how he often sent him gifts such as dogs, horses and falcons, and how he was kept constantly informed of the care given to him; he also recalls that Gian Galeazzo had begun to manifest the first stomach disorders already at the age of 13 and that in fact he continuously disobeyed the prescriptions of doctors, continuing to pour wine out of measure and to fatigue in continuous hunting trips and in a disordered sexual life.
The Lenten significance of the Gospel account of Zacchaeus is that it introduces the themes of pious zeal (Zacchaeus' climbing up the sycamore tree; Jesus' words: "Zacchaeus, make haste"), restraint (Jesus' words: "come down"), making a place for Jesus in the heart ("I must abide at thy house"), overcoming gossip ("And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner"), repentance and almsgiving ("And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold"), forgiveness and reconciliation ("And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham"), and the reason for the Passion and Resurrection ("For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost").
Currently, the Amazonian metropolis has several hypermarket chains, with all kinds of services, multiplexes, first-class hospitals, high-speed internet, hotel services, luxury resorts, hotels of all categories; The land connection in the mid-1960s brought with it enormous economic and demographic growth to the city, as a result of the construction and paving of access roads, from the capital city, Lima, connecting to the central highway in the central highlands and /or with the Fernando Belaunde Terry highway through Pasco and Huanuco; and in the north interconnected to the cities of Bagua, Chachapoyas, Chiclayo, Piura and Trujillo, and with proximity to the largest port in northern Peru, the port of Paita on the Pacific Ocean and the port of Salaverry in La Libertad, in addition to a connection to Brazil through the river port of Yurimaguas, just 3 hours away by road, and its exit to the Atlantic through the Huallaga River, a tributary of the Marañón River and this of the Amazon River.
The song is built around many samples: a drum break from organist George Semper's cover version of Lee Dorsey's "Get Out of My Life, Woman"; a sample of James Brown grunting from the opening of his song "Say It Loud - I'm Black and I'm Proud"; a sample of the line "insane in the brain" from Cypress Hill's own song "Hole in the Head"; the opening keyboard from Sly and the Family Stone's "Life," a vocal sample of the line "just another local" from "How I Could Just Kill a Man" during the second and the third chorus, a vocal sample at the end of the second chorus from the beginning of "Latin Lingo (Prince Paul Mix) ," a vocal sample of the line "gunshot me head back" from Buju Banton's "Boom By By" before the start of the third verse, and a sample of the line "I think I'm going crazy" from the Youngbloods' "All Over the World (La La) "which concludes the track.
Her other achievements include serving as National President of the National Congress of Italian Canadians; President of the Universal Youth Foundation; Member of the Canada 21 Council; Member of the Ontario Lieutenant Governor's Board of Review; a Director of the Legal Education Action Fund Foundation; member of Canadian Friends of Hebrew University; a Director of North York Branson Hospital; a Director of The John Cabot (1997) 500th Anniversary Corporation; a Director of the Integrated Growth Fund; Chair of the Canadian Centre for Italian Culture and Education; a Director and then Chair of the Association of Chairs of Colleges and Universities; Member of the Board of Presidents, Canadian Ethnocultural Council; founding member and then President of the Women's Intercultural Network; Vice-Magister, Phi Delta Phi, Osgoode Inn; a Director of The Canadian Stage Company; Governor of the YMCA; founder and member of the Advisory Board of Amani Canada, an organization dedicated to supporting the work of Amani, which runs homes and schools for street children in Tanzania, Africa.
Many Speakers also held higher or other offices while in Parliament: The first Speaker, Sir Daniel Cooper (1856-1860) was later made a Baronet, of Woollahra in New South Wales, in 1863; William Arnold (1865-1875) served in the Robertson and Cowper Ministries before becoming Speaker; Sir George Wigram Allen (1875-1882) also served as a Minister in the first Parkes Government; Edmund Barton (1883-1887) entered the new Federal Parliament in 1901 as the first Prime Minister of Australia (1901-1903) and thereafter served as a Puisne Justice of the High Court of Australia until 1920; James Dooley (1925-1927) before taking up the role of Speaker had served two terms as the Premier of New South Wales in 1921 and from 1921 to 1922; Reginald Weaver (1937-1941), later served briefly as Leader of the Opposition of New South Wales and as the first Leader of the NSW Liberal Party in 1945 before his death and John Aquilina (2003-2007) also served as a Minister in the Unsworth and Carr Labor Governments.
[I]t shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than Indians, to settle or reside upon any lands belonging to or occupied by any nation or tribe of Indians within this state; and that all leases, contracts and agreements made by any Indians, whereby any person or persons, other than Indians, shall be permitted to reside upon such lands, shall be absolutely void; and if any person or persons shall settle or reside on any such lands, contrary to this act, it shall be the duty of any judge of any court of Common Pleas of the county within which such lands shall be situated, on complaint made to him, and on due proof of the fact of such settlement or residence, to issue his warrant, under his hand and seal, directed to the sheriff of such county, commanding him, within ten days after the receipt thereof, to remove such person or persons so settling or residing, with his, her or their families, from such lands.
Projects undertaken by the company included an engine factory for the Bristol Aeroplane Company at Hawthorn completed in 1943, the Royal Liverpool University Hospital completed in 1969, the Scammonden Dam completed in 1970, New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton completed in 1970, the Alvito Dam in Portugal completed in 1976, Dinorwig Power Station completed in 1984, Manchester Central completed in 1986, Devonshire Dock Hall in Barrow-in-Furness completed in 1986, the Jackfield Bridge completed in 1994, the Royal Armouries Museum in Leeds completed in 1996, the Kirklees Stadium in Huddersfield completed in 1997 (known commercially as the McAlpine Stadium until 2004), the JJB Stadium in Wigan completed in 1999 (now known as the DW Stadium), the Eden Project in St Austell completed in 2001, Wythenshawe Hospital completed in 2001, Hereford County Hospital completed in 2002, the M6 Toll completed in 2003, the redevelopment of Stoke Mandeville Hospital completed in 2006, the new elective care facility for Addenbrooke's Hospital completed in 2007 and the Bluestone Holiday Complex completed in 2008.
In addition to participating in an international array of group exhibitions such as the Venice Biennale (1997, 1980, 1976), the Whitney Biennial (1995, 1977), and Documenta, Kassel, Germany (1972), Martin has been the recipient of multiple honors including the Lifetime Achievement Award on behalf of the Women's Caucus for Art of the College Art Association (2005); Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1992); the Governor's Award for Excellence and Achievement in the Arts given by Governor Gary Johnson, Santa Fe, New Mexico (1998); the National Medal of Arts awarded by President Bill Clinton and the National Endowment for the Arts (1998); the Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement by the College Art Association (1998); the Golden Lion for Contribution to Contemporary Art at the Venice Biennale (1997); the Oskar Kokoschka Prize awarded by the Austrian government (1992); the Alexej von Jawlensky Prize awarded by the city of Wiesbaden, Germany (1991); and election to the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, New York (1989).
Ferrante erected the Porta del Carmine and that of San Gennaro and for this work he spent 28466 ducats, on his order the table bridges placed in front of each gate of the city were removed and on the side of the Carmelo church he had that door built that can be seen adorned of travertine stones, he had the Porta Capuana transported, which was near the Castel Capuano on the sides of the church of Santa Caterina in Formiello, where it was magnificently built with sculptures worked in marvelous fine marbles, he had an armory built such as to be able to contain weapons for sixty thousand soldiers, completed the famous tower that now serves as the bell tower of the Basilica of San Lorenzo Maggiore begun by Charles II, for his arrangement the cenacle of the friars of Santa Maria la Nova was painted by the brothers Pietro and Ippolito del Donzello and he also had many places of worship repaired, adorning them with precious furnishings.
Modifications for the MTVL series and M113A3 series include a more powerful Detroit Diesel 6V-53TIA series Detroit Diesel Electronic Control (DDEC) IV electronic engine (which allows the user to electronically tune the engine to a desired rating up to 400 hp), upgraded suspension, additional fuel tanks that were added under the floor of the vehicle (In addition to the existing rear exterior fuel tanks, both of which now had special fuel cells designed not to rupture in an anti-tank mine blast) increasing the fuel tank capacity to 757 litres, bolt-on steel armour plates, replacement of the previous lever based steering with a steering wheel, the option of mounting steel cage armour, and improved armament consisting of either a Cadillac-Gage 1 metre turret, a Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station or a FFNW (Fitted For Not With) mounting, although some vehicles have been seen using older weapons mounts in place of not having any weapons mounted due to FFNW and not having enough RWS to equip all vehicles at once.
Cacioppo served on various boards, including the President's Committee for the National Medal of Science; the International Scientific Advisory Committee for the Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO); the Advisory Committee for the Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences (SBE) Directorate of the National Science Foundation; the scientific advisory committee of the College of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Beijing Normal University; the National Institutes of Health Center for Scientific Review (CSR) Advisory Council; the Expert Panel on Program to Reduce Social Isolation, Mary Foundation in Copenhagen, Denmark; the board of directors of the Society for Social Neuroscience; the board of directors of the Federation of Associations in Behavioral and Brain Sciences; the External Advisory Committee of the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology at the University of Illinois; the Health and Retirement Study Data Monitoring Board of the National Institute on Aging; the Department of Health and Human Services National Advisory Council on Aging; and also the board of directors of the scientific societies for which he served as president.
Eight decrees were promulgated at this council; (1) that no one should dare to offer in sacrifice milk and grapes, but bread and wine mixed with a drop of water in a chalice, nor should bread soaking in wine be used; (2) that laymen should be excommunicated, and ecclesiastics deprived of their office, if either put the sacred vessels to profane uses; (4) that no priest should have any woman but his mother in his house; (5-6) that bishops, when carrying the relics of martyrs in procession, must walk to the church, and not be carried in a chair, or litter, by deacons clothed in white; that corporal punishment was not to be inflicted on youthful ecclesiastics, abbots, or priests, except for grievous faults; (7-8) that no fee must be accepted for Holy orders, and that the rectors of the churches must not require that members of their ecclesiastical household to do work on their private farms; if they did so they must recompense the church for the injury done thereby.
The Constitution, states that the president addresses messages to the Parliament, exercises the right of pardon according to the law, grants Albanian citizenship and permits it to be given up according to the law, gives decorations and titles of honor according to the law, accords the highest military rank according to the law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, he appoints and withdraws plenipotentiary representatives of the Republic of Albania to other states and international organizations, accepts letters of credentials and the withdrawal of diplomatic representatives of other states and international organization accredited to him, signs international agreements according to the law, upon proposal of the Prime Minister, he appoints the Director of the National Security Department, nominates rectors of universities upon proposal of their council's representatives, sets the date of the elections for the Parliament, for the organs of local power and for the conduct of a referendum and requests opinions and information in writing from the directors of state institutions for issues that have to do with their duties.
On July 3, 2007, the Court (through the original three-judge panel) ruled (1) that the taxpayer's compensation was received on account of a nonphysical injury or sickness; (2) that gross income under section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code does include compensatory damages for nonphysical injuries, even if the award is not an "accession to wealth," (3) that the income tax imposed on an award for nonphysical injuries is an indirect tax, regardless of whether the recovery is restoration of "human capital," and therefore the tax does not violate the constitutional requirement of Article I, Section 9, Clause 4, that capitations or other direct taxes must be laid among the states only in proportion to the population; (4) that the income tax imposed on an award for nonphysical injuries does not violate the constitutional requirement of Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, that all duties, imposts and excises be uniform throughout the United States; (5) that under the doctrine of sovereign immunity, the Internal Revenue Service may not be sued in its own name.
The independent search after truth, unfettered by superstition or tradition; the oneness of the entire human race, the pivotal principle and fundamental doctrine of the Faith; the basic unity of all religions; the condemnation of all forms of prejudice, whether religious, racial, class or national; the harmony which must exist between religion and science; the equality of men and women, the two wings on which the bird of human kind is able to soar; the introduction of compulsory education; the adoption of a universal auxiliary language; the abolition of the extremes of wealth and poverty; the institution of a world tribunal for the adjudication of disputes between nations; the exaltation of work, performed in the spirit of service, to the rank of worship; the glorification of justice as the ruling principle in human society, and of religion as a bulwark for the protection of all peoples and nations; and the establishment of a permanent and universal peace as the supreme goal of all mankind - these stand out as the essential elements [which Baháʼu'lláh proclaimed].
Opponents of the bill claim that erroneous shelter statistics are being used to support the bill, and that the experiences where mandatory spay/neuter laws have been implemented show that they increase costs to the taxpayers, and increase shelter impound and euthanasia rates, that non-punitive No Kill programs have proven to be more effective solutions, and that official state shelter statistics indicate that impound and euthanasia rates have been generally trending downward in California for more than 30 years, that passage of the bill would harm breeding programs for pets, guide dogs and service dogs, search-and-rescue dogs, police dogs, military working dogs, hunting dogs, and working herding and livestock guardian dogs, and that spay and neuter have adverse health impacts that need to be weighed against the benefits, therefore spay and neuter should be decisions made between the owner in consultation with their veterinarian based on the health needs and circumstances of each individual patient, rather than one that is dictated by the state, and, finally, that a majority of veterinary medical associations in California oppose AB 1634.
In 1674, the prosecutor of the Majorca tribunal sent a report to the Supreme Inquisition in which he accused the Majorcan Crypto-Jews of 33 charges, among them their refusal to marry ("natural Christians") and their social rejection of those who did so; the practice of secrecy; the giving of Old Testament names to their children; the identification with their tribe of origin, and the arrangement of marriages as a function of that fact; the exclusion in their homes of the iconography of the New Testament and the presence of those of the Old; contempt for and insults toward Christians; exercising professions related to weights and measures in order to trick Christians; holding positions in the Church in order to mock them later with impunity; applying their own legal system; taking up collections for their own poor; financing a synagogue in Rome, where they had a representative; holding clandestine meetings; complying with Jewish dietary practices, including those of animal sacrifice and of fast days; the observance of the Jewish Sabbath; and avoidance of Last Rites at the time of death.
It further recommends a number of serious measures to be taken by the Government of the Sudan, in particular (i) ending the impunity for the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Darfur; (ii) strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, and empowering courts to address human rights violations; (iii) granting full and unimpeded access by the International Committee of the Red Cross and United Nations human rights monitors to all those detained in relation to the situation in Darfur; (iv) ensuring the protection of all the victims and witnesses of human rights violations; (v) enhancing the capacity of the Sudanese judiciary through the training of judges, prosecutors and lawyers; (vi) respecting the rights of IDPs and fully implementing the Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement, particularly with regard to facilitating the voluntary return of IDPs in safety and dignity; (vii) fully cooperating with the relevant human rights bodies and mechanisms of the United Nations and the African Union; and (viii) creating, through a broad consultative process, a truth and reconciliation commission once peace is established in Darfur.
Privacy advocates raised concerns about this practice; concerns included that allowing email content to be read by a machine (as opposed to a person) can allow Google to keep unlimited amounts of information forever; the automated background scanning of data raises the risk that the expectation of privacy in email usage will be reduced or eroded; information collected from emails could be retained by Google for years after its current relevancy to build complete profiles on users; emails sent by users from other email providers get scanned despite never having agreed to Google's privacy policy or terms of service; Google can change its privacy policy unilaterally, and for minor changes to the policy it can do so without informing users; in court cases, governments and organizations can potentially find it easier to legally monitor email communications; at any time, Google can change its current company policies to allow combining information from emails with data gathered from use of its other services; and any internal security problem on Google's systems can potentially expose many - or all - of its users.
Capability development, which is often referred to as the military'strength', is arguably one of the most complex activities known to humanity; because it requires determining: strategic, operational, and tactical capability requirements to counter the identified threats; strategic, operational, and tactical doctrines by which the acquired capabilities will be used; identifying concepts, methods, and systems involved in executing the doctrines; creating design specifications for the manufacturers who would produce these in adequate quantity and quality for their use in combat; purchase the concepts, methods, and systems; create a forces structure that would use the concepts, methods, and systems most effectively and efficiently; integrate these concepts, methods, and systems into the force structure by providing military education, training, and practice that preferably resembles combat environment of intended use; create military logistics systems to allow continued and uninterrupted performance of military organizations under combat conditions, including provision of health services to the personnel, and maintenance for the equipment; the services to assist recovery of wounded personnel, and repair of damaged equipment; and finally, post-conflict demobilization, and disposal of war stocks surplus to peacetime requirements.
He has been a member of Council of the Hansard Society for Parliamentary Government, Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Select Committee on the European Communities, Member of the Court of Essex University, adviser (as a member of the Council of Europe and American Bar Association delegations) to the governments of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Israel and Slovakia on constitutional and electoral reform, member of the Academic Panel of Local Authority Associations, member of the Hansard Society Commission on the Legislative Process, member of the UK Government delegation on Democratic Institutions in Central and Eastern Europe and Conference on the Protection of Minorities, Consultant to Independent Television News (ITN) on the General Election, member of the Economic and Social Research Council's committee administering the'Whitehall' programme, special adviser to the House of Commons Select Committee on the Public Services, member of the Swedish Constitutional Reform Project, member of the Advisory Group to the High Commissioner on National Minorities, adviser to the President of Trinidad on the Constitution of Trinidad, and member of the Economic and Social Research Council's committee administering the devolution programme.
That the several states composing the United States of America are not united on the principle of unlimited submission to their general government; but that, by compact, under the style and title of a Constitution for the United States, and of amendments thereto, they constituted a general government for special purposes, delegated to that government certain definite powers, reserving, each state to itself, the residuary mass of right to their own self-government; and that whensoever the general government assumes undelegated powers, its acts are unauthoritative, void, and of no force; that to this compact each state acceded as a state, and is an integral party, its co-States forming, as to itself, the other party; that this government, created by this compact, was not made the exclusive or final judge of the extent of the powers delegated to itself, since that would have made its discretion, and not the Constitution, the measure of its powers; but that, as in all other cases of compact among powers having no common judge, each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of the mode and measure of redress.
Dissolution of the Ottoman Parliament.
Monadnock, Steamtown & Northern Railroad.
List of US visa types.
Distinguishing cyberstalking from other acts.
Founder of Social judgment theory.
Dansk Melodi Grand Prix 2004.
McCallum Adobe-Cornelia White House Museum.
Trustee of Marietta College 1845-1889.
Christianity is the majority's religion.
Stewart & Stevenson Services, Inc.
High Middle Age and Renaissance.
Radio-protective effects of superoxide dismutase.
Workers and Peasants' Socialist Party.
Birthplace of the German Kingdom.
Economy and infrastructure of Samoa.
1951: Design of early satellites.
Radicalisation of the Paris workers.
Naming customs in the Philippines.
He was born in Plovdiv.
Second Party Conference (February 1919).
Hazardous drug reactions and interactions.
Calculation of the tax payable.
2001 Los Angeles mayoral election.
ASCAP Film & Television Awards.
Incompatibility with the Condorcet criterion.
MES in L-shaped cost curve.
Opinions of classical Islamic scholars.
Influence of Greek and Roman.
Campaigns of Alexander the Great.
The Patent Act of 1952.
Mem represents a bilabial nasal.
School size, character and facilities.
1955 New York City, USA.
All routes are wheelchair accessible.
48 wrestlers began the competition.
A feast at Jerusalem (5:1).
Before the Second Vatican Council.
World Wrestling Entertainment (2005, 2007).
Data on violence against women.
Proposals in the National Congress.
Influence on Europe and China.
Land ownership and property management.
1997-2016: The Tim Duncan era.
Science, literacy and educational reforms.
Evolution of religion and kingship.
Whistler Olympic and Paralympic Village.
The meat commands premium prices.
Commercial, economic and cultural ties.
"Habiba" is the female equivalent.
Rise of the Ottomans (1299-1453).
History in the Royal Navy.
"Night and Day" (Virginia Woolf).
Malad comes under this ward.
Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy.
Demographics of Greeks in Istanbul.
Ruler of Lithuania and Poland.
Blue-collar sitcoms and rural dramas.
Saudi Arabia's intervention in Yemen.
Alliance with Christopher Daniels (2012-2014).
The Zaghawa of Central Africa.
Uber also operates in Beirut.
The city flag is white-red.
The process of stone sculpture.
The arrival of the Jesuits.
Metre boats in the Olympics.
Heroes of the Soviet Union.
Modern National Games of India.
Frontier Ideology in American History.
Municipal politics after the transition.
Human Rights Defenders in Colombia.
The New Housatonic Railroad (1983-present).
Charter of the United Nations.
Senior Australian of the Year.
Fall of Saddam Hussein's government.
Atlantic City stage show (1990-1991).
American organizations involved in espionage.
Commander of the Paratroopers Brigade.
Wilford attended the NFL Combine.
Conquests in the Indus Valley.
Vaporization enthalpy of electrolyte solutions.
Countess of Flanders and Hainaut.
Threats to the cedar glades.
The Stoic school on Rhodes.
Possible connection with quantum mechanics.
International, national and subnational policies.
North Wales Narrow Gauge Railways.
Current and wave fluid dynamics.
Guam Community College CTE Programs.
Corruption within the education system.
Childhood and studies in Russia.
Women's 10 metre air rifle.
Animal welfare laws and rules.
This listing is not exhaustive.
Lahr's mayor is Jürgen Olbermann.
Assassination attempt by the UDA.
Natural environment of Suncheon Bay.
Siege of the Haditha Dam.
2023 Lowestoft Gull Wing Bridge.
Aqueous solutions of zinc chloride.
All songs written by Klayton.
Replacements for gunpowder (black powder).
KGK general purpose machine gun.
Alutor is a polysynthetic language.
2000 elections and transition period.
Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police.
Army of the Lower Rhine.
Crime as a public concern.
He remained active until 2015.
Protests continued for several days.
State-sponsored global public relations effort.
Fourier transform in three dimensions.
Therapeutic intervention for gender variance.
Winograd resides in Southern California.
Economic crisis of the 1970s.
Formation of the Turkish guard.
Every symmetric operator is closable.
Notable events involving the maquis.
Special envoy on Ebola (2014-2015).
Reconquest opportunity on Ferdinand's death.
Evolution of analogue control signals.
Spanish colonization and governance (1697-1821).
Three-point form of circle equation.
Lime may also be added.
Hall of Eastern Woodlands Indians.
He had a daughter, Anne.
British land and naval offensive.
CareerTech has a campus here.
Discrepancy between theory and experiment.
Paying for news in Iraq.
2001-2012: Universal and Interscope Records.
Civil rights and race relations.
American Axle and Manufacturing, Inc.
Imperial War Museum, London, UK.
Early history of the Bastille.
Mechanisms of cell growth control.
Jayyousi was released in 2017.
South American Championship U-20 Record.
Costa Rica mandates school counseling.
Topographers are experts in topography.
Role in the Marian Persecutions.
Traditional dance and dramatic forms.
Social cohesion and inclusive governance.
Bracaletti was born in Orvieto.
Third Intermediate Period (1069-653 BC).
The end of Victoria's reign.
Michelle Wie at 2006 tournament.
Magazines, television, and video games.
Situation in the South Pacific.
Vice Mayor of Taguig (1995-1998).
Photoluminescence properties of direct-gap semiconductors.
Municipalities on the Franconian Saale.
United Kingdom (England and Wales).
Derivative suits in continental Europe.
Reading values from Index Registers.
Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2002-2010).
Somerset College opened in 1983.
Connections to Wold Newton family.
Recent developments in private banking.
Global perspectives on smart power.
Country music and WSOC-FM simulcasts.
There are 15 elementary schools.
They mainly feed on insects.
Yamada is a Japanese surname.
Conventional forms of royalty payment.
He first worked for Esso.
Differences between novel and screenplay.
Fully automatic compared to semi-automatic.
Exceptions to the non-delegation principle.
Consequences of the "danka" system.
He was born at Sulzheim.
Artificial satellites around the Earth.
Norman Conquest - 11th century.
Early 1980s-1990s: Lessons of RISC.
Great Church of St Pancras.
The parallelism is unusually regular.
Cabinet of the United Kingdom.
Fontamillas is a Seventh-day Adventist.
Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine.
London Midland and Scottish Railway.
Saga of Eric the Red.
Appointment as Ambassador to Germany.
Russian K-152 "Nerpa" gas leak.
Guardians of the Galaxy (1978).
Real estate brokers and sellers.
1983-present: The District of Bromsgrove.
Law against publishing wiretapping records.
Insolvency is a regulated profession.
Late Bronze Age (Egyptian period).
Return to Forest Green Rovers.
Loss of contact with STEREO-B.
Proportion of women in parliament.
Malaya's economy pre- and post-Independence.
2019 NRL Harvey Norman All-Stars.
AAT and OpenType in macOS.
Statue of Sir Tasker Watkins.
It is endemic to Spain.
Gavin and Mark are brothers.
Usage guidance in English grammars.
Fossil record of early trilobites.
List of governors of Jersey.
Cortez Masto supports same-sex marriage.
Tulsa Race Riot of 1921.
1864: Merlo obtains its autonomy.
Defence industry activity in Victoria.
Resolution 2334 and quarterly reports.
Williams Arena at Minges Coliseum.
Role in 2011 Egyptian revolution.
Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts.
FIFA U-17 World Cup Record.
Lütz's mayor is Simone Nick.
Electric tramways - Inner London.
The early work of Galbraith.
Heron formulae in non-Euclidean geometries.
Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link.
Travel freedom of Slovenian citizens.
Generals of the Army (WWII).
Birth of Jewish political movements.
Dialogue with readers through Facebook.
Medieval and early modern antiquarianism.
Walt Disney Computer Software, Inc.
"Erythrolamprus ornatus" is probably diurnal.
National Parliament of West Papua.
Jari Torkki retired in 2003.
Common law and case law.
Capture of the Philippine Islands.
This frog's lifespan is unknown.
Nilpotent Lie algebras are solvable.
The Irish Trades Union Congress.
Joint venture with Schlumberger (2000-2006).
Application of a value-added tax.
Competitions held outside North America.
Avoidance of immune system response.
Chairperson of the African Union.
Byzantine attempt to re-conquer Syria.
"Dreadnought"-class nuclear ballistic missile submarine.
Byzantine and Eastern Orthodox art.
Johnston's death caused a by-election.
30 clubs have been Champions.
Historical development of Berlin's population.
CBS Sports and CBS News.
Mosaic of The Last Supper.
Developments after 2016 Rio Olympics.
Relations to the Hausdorff dimension.
Friendship with George Caleb Bingham.
Crash of ValuJet Flight 592.
48-bit extended unique identifier (EUI-48).
Role in DNA repair mechanisms.
Presumption of Death Act 2013.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Innate structures in the brain.
Fiennes appears as a named character in the play Henry VI, Part 2 by William Shakespeare, while the Battle of Barnet at which his son William died is referenced in the next play of the trilogy, Henry VI, Part 3.
In his role as critic voter in the 2012 British Film Institute survey on the greatest films of all time, famed John Ford biographer Tad Gallagher chose "War and Peace" as one of the ten greatest movies of all time.
Second placed rider in the general classification, Ockers was unable to win back time in later stages, so Kübler stayed in the lead for the rest of the race, and became the first Swiss winner of the Tour de France.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1964, advanced to Commander (CBE) in 1982, and in 1997 he became the first (and still only) England bowler to be knighted for services to cricket.
Although he retired from all official duties in 1974, he never quits coming to the office and he never stopped representing Clemson in a manner which continued to win friends for the place that was so dear to his heart.
From many angles the hill resembles a perfect cone of scree, though it is linked to the rest of the Red Hills by way of a bealach, the Bealach na Sgairde (pronounced "b'ya-loch na skaar-st'ya"), meaning the pass of scree.
In July 2004 he and co-pilot Lorne White flew a single engine Cessna from Cape Columbia in the north of Canada to Cape Horn at the southern tip of South America, covering 11,060 miles and arriving on 23 July after 12 days.
He died in the city of Cádiz in 1794, aged 72, while on his way to take command of an army in the Eastern Pyrenees that had been ordered to oppose invading French revolutionary forces, just after the beheading of Louis XVI.
The first mention of Toniná in a record from a foreign state is from the site of Chinikiha, located to the northeast on the Usumacinta River, the text is from a throne and describes the capture of a person from Toniná in 573.
New South Wales selectors took the opportunity to blood a number of young players for the first time like Chris Mortimer, Pat Jarvis and Peter Wynn who along with Mortimer would play dominant roles in the Blues revival of 1985.
People knew about the minerals in the Norilsk area as early as the Bronze Age - a site with primitive equipment for smelting and casting, as well as raw materials (balls of native copper), has been discovered near Lake Pyasino.
The station, along with the rest of the Classic Gold network, was replaced on 3 August 2007 by a new network called simply Gold, the result of the merger of the Classic Gold and Capital Gold networks under one owner, GCap Media.
Amongst their many notable fixtures were the Wasps and the Harlequins as well as many teams who were prominent at the time including the Royal School of Mines although by 1877 the club was showing signs of having poor attendance.
After graduating from Bramham College in the West Riding of Yorkshire in 1857, Doxford began to work at his father's company, William Doxford & Sons, upon its creation in 1858 at its new headquarters at Pallion on the River Wear.
Between his second and third albums, Studdard began a diet and fitness program to deal with his weight, out of concern for a family history of diabetes and hypertension, resulting in his losing over 70 pounds on a vegetarian diet.
Entries were divided into four classes, split via "CP Units", where the engine capacity of the vehicle (in litres) was multiplied by the retail price of the vehicle (in dollars) to give a CP (Capacity Price) Units value for each model.
"A Miracle of Love" is the title of the song written by Ralph Siegel that Marco performed, together with Nicole Süßmilch, during the German pre-selection for the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 and they again made a very good second place.
Symptoms of MD overlap with migraine-associated vertigo (MAV) in many ways, but when hearing loss develops in MAV, it is usually in both ears, and this is rare in MD, and hearing loss generally does not progress in MAV as it does in MD.
Characters also come in different sizes with Small and Medium characters taking up 1 square, Large 4 (2 by 2), Huge 9 (3 by 3), and Colossal (anything bigger than 3 by 3; the biggest so far is the AT-AT, which takes up 6 by 12 squares).
When asked about the Silver Star Carousel's new home, spokesmen from Six Flags Over Texas said that the intrinsic value of it "could not be estimated" due to the fact it was one of the few remaining hand-crafted carousels in the country.
Though Grice did race, and win, for Holden factory teams in ATCC (most famously in the Bathurst 1000 in 1990), he spent much of his career as a privateer racing in a Holden against the Holden works teams (typically driven by Peter Brock).
Originally the Abbey formed part of a Benedictine monastery and was saved from the Dissolution of the Monasteries by King Henry VIII after being bought by the townspeople for the price of the lead on the roof to use as their parish church.
The XP was also in use at South Broads Lifeboat Station in Suffolk, one of the few RNLI inland waterways lifeboat stations until it closed in 2011, and at Teignmouth Lifeboat Station in Devon, where it is deployed from the larger lifeboat.
This road is the obligatory route for the vacation destinations of Mar del Plata and other cities along the coast of Buenos Aires Province as it connects with Autovía 2, so it has high volumes of traffic during the summer months and Easter.
Being a specialist in one-day classic cycle races, he won another Belgian champion title in 1972, two Tours of Flanders at ten-year intervals in 1968 and 1978, two Bordeaux-Paris in 1969 and 1976 and had numerous runner-ups in other classics.
Most load balancers can send requests to different servers based on the URL being requested, assuming the request is not encrypted (HTTP) or if it is encrypted (via HTTPS) that the HTTPS request is terminated (decrypted) at the load balancer.
Among the objectives of this super computer are to allow Mexican researchers to work with highly modern infrastructure without the necessity of leaving the country, thus helping to stop the brain drain that the country has had in the last years.
In 1976, the nonprofit organization, the Inuit Tapirisat of Canada (ITC), now known as the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami - who represent all Canadian Inuit - submitted its first Inuit land claims proposal, calling for the creation of a new territory.
As the country celebrated its win of the World Cup, many political activists were tortured in Buenos Aires and then later taken on "death flights", where victims were drugged and then dropped alive into the Atlantic Ocean from military aircraft.
On 25 November 2014 the Chisholm report was released, clearing Collins of the allegations into her dealings with former SFO director Adam Feeley, so on 4 December 2014 Collins was granted the right to retain the title of 'The Honourable' for life.
The origin of the name Leoti is disputed: one tradition says the name is an Indian term for "prairie flower"; another says the community was named for settler Leoti Kibbee; a third says it was named for Leoti Gray, the daughter of a town founder.
After the war, this news were spread all across Mande: that Touré defeated two great kings in one battlefield and he is absolutely the "Keletigui", and the battle was named as "saman-saman" (the pulled-pulled) or the kings were pulling the rules.
After Oscar accurately predicted 25 deaths, staff started calling family members of residents as soon as they discovered him sleeping next to a patient in order to notify them and give them an opportunity to say goodbye before the impending death.
Coming into service towards the end of the war, all seventy Type 4s that were operational were retained on the home islands as part of the bolstering of Japan's defenses against Allied air raids and against the perceived threat of Allied invasion.
In March 2021, a 3 part documentary aired on ABC TV and ABC iView called "EXPOSED: The Ghost Train Fire" which showed interviews of survivors, families of those perished in the fire, employees of Luna Park and other people exposed to the incident.
Following the 1941 air crashes, in 2007 a mural was painted by local school children and unveiled by the Canadian High Commissioner shortly afterwards on the same site, while there is an ongoing campaign by the Cox family for a permanent memorial.
For this operation, three or possibly four V-2 rockets were launched during October 1945 from a launch pad at north-east of Arensch near Cuxhaven within the British Occupation zone in Germany in order to demonstrate the weapon to Allied personnel.
During the 70s Windsor also appeared as Watt in "Jack the Ripper", in which he and Barlow reopened the Jack the Ripper murder casebook, and a similar series "Second Verdict", in which they looked into unsolved mysteries and miscarriages of justice.
On November 28, Hinson picked up his 250th career victory when the Salukis defeated the University of Portland at the Corpus Christi Classic 80-79 when Portland's potential game winning shot got wedged between the rim and backboard as time expired.
In 13th-century Germany, Italy, England, France, and Spain the term "feodum" was used to describe a dependent tenure held from a lord by a vassal in return for a specified amount of knight service and occasional financial payments (feudal incidents).
A winner of the Annual Middle East Peace Prize awarded by the Foundation For Peace & Democracy in the Middle East for his role in protecting Iraq's Christian Minority, Al-Rubaie maintains good relations with Bishop Andrew White, the Canon of Baghdad.
Ramage spent one season in Minnesota which was cut short when a knee injury required surgery, before finding himself once again on the unprotected list as the league was set to expand by two more clubs with franchises granted in Ottawa and Tampa Bay.
During the winter of 1603-1604, Galileo visited the Mantuan court in an effort to obtain a position there, and was offered a salary, but could not agree on the terms with Vincenzo, who instead presented Galileo with a gold chain and two silver dishes.
SWNCC in essence took academic and government research and used it to create a detailed set of policies which included the views of the military and civilian bureaucracies and which would be implemented by the military government once it took control.
Orchiectomy or DES or both were the standard initial treatment for symptomatic advanced prostate cancer for over 40 years, until the GnRH agonist leuprorelin was found to have efficacy similar to DES without estrogenic effects and was approved in 1985.
In the analogy, the one seeking to remove the impediment in the eye of his brother has the larger impediment in his own eye, suggesting metaphorically that the one who attempts to regulate his brother often displays the greater blindness and hypocrisy.
Located entirely in the northern portion of Jackson County, State Route 788 is a route that is not included as a part of the National Highway System, a system of highways that are considered most important for the nation's economy, mobility and defense.
The KO&G came under common control of the Muskogee Company (often referred to as the "Muskogee Roads" or the "Muskogee Lines") in 1925, sharing common management with the Midland Valley Railroad and the Oklahoma City-Ada-Atoka Railway from 1930 to 1964.
Bruno Apitz's novel "Nackt unter Wölfen", a story that culminates in the vivid description of the self-liberation of the detainees, was deliberately chosen to take place on the same day as the formal opening of the Buchenwald Monument in September 1958.
London Streets is also responsible for managing the London congestion charge, a fee that is charged to most motorists entering the central London area, as well as street CCTV systems and control of traffic lights and bus lane enforcement cameras (BLECs).
Sharing this vision, the North-South Centre of the Council of Europe and the European Commission have agreed to combine their efforts - as key players European in this field - to promote global/development education and youth action in Europe and beyond.
Besides participating in the CBS telecast of the pre-game show, Dan Marino also participated in the coin toss along with Norma Hunt, who was the widow of Lamar Hunt, the former owner of the Kansas City Chiefs and the man who gave the Super Bowl its name.
Originally intended to be a four-hour miniseries, "The Curse of King Tut's Tomb" had about an hour and forty-five minutes edited from the length for the screener copy sent to critics; the version aired on Hallmark was approximately 180 minutes in length.
Charles Leonard Hamblin (20 November 1922 - 14 May 1985) was an Australian philosopher, logician, and computer pioneer, as well as a professor of philosophy at the New South Wales University of Technology (now the University of New South Wales) in Sydney.
Earlier that day, she defended the selection of Sarah Palin as McCain's running mate and said that Palin was being subjected to sexist attacks, a charge she repeated a few days later in response to one of the "Saturday Night Live" parodies of Sarah Palin.
The Convincing Ground massacre, in which 20 native owners of the land were massacred by whalers, occurred in Portland Bay in 1833 or 1834, following a dispute about a beached whale between whalers and the "Kilcarer gundidj" clan of the Gunditjmara people.
Broken by a series of military reversals suffered in the territory under their control, the Venetians resigned themselves to the unfavourable conditions stipulated in the Treaty of Zadar (Zara), which was signed in the eponymous city on February 18, 1358.
Born and raised in New York City by Panamanian parents, Melissa De Sousa attended the High School of Performing Arts as a ballet major, and began her career as a principal dancer with The Alvin Ailey American Dance Company before transitioning into acting.
Originally established 1931 as an extension of the University of Delaware Foreign Study Plan, the Junior Year in Munich program was reopened in 1953 by Wayne State University as the first junior year abroad program for US undergraduates in postwar Germany.
In June 2007, Nardiello turned down a new contract at Barnsley, and shunned interest from Norwich City to sign a two-year contract with fellow Championship side Queens Park Rangers, in a move that was criticised by Barnsley's then-chairman Gordon Shepherd.
Krein's pioneering spirit had led him to incorporate the intonations and styles of both sacred and secular Jewish music into a relatively advanced idiom that was as influenced by French impressionism as it was by the music of his friend Alexander Scriabin.
After a highly successful 2006-07, the Wolves would improve once again, setting team records in wins (20) and points (41), while finishing in third place in the WOAA North Division, and earning a spot in the "AA" playoffs for the first time in team history.
Since 2006, to mark the 125th anniversary of the elevation of Žižkov into a city and the 15th anniversary of the commissioning of the transmitter, the transmitter is illuminated in different colors every evening, usually in the colors of the state tricolor.
Charles Burney and John Hawkins both published specimens of his compositions in their works on the history of music, while Henry Aldrich collected an almost complete set of his compositions, which are currently housed at the library of Christ Church, Oxford.
Note that a diamond opening lead sets the contract, as it doesn't give the tempo in hearts to the declarer: the declarer must lose a heart and two diamonds before he sets up the hearts for diamond discards; the trump king is the fourth trick for the defense.
In the early 2010s, major breweries began experimenting with mass-market non-alcoholic beers to counter with declining alcohol consumption amid growing preference for craft beer, launching beverages like Anheuser-Busch's Budweiser Prohibition Brew, launched in 2016.
In the case of nuclear threats or force being escalated by any and all parties involved in this agreement, and those not, the United States and Soviet Union will immediately meet to try to resolve any issues and avoid nuclear conflict by any means necessary.
The relationships built with Sir Edmund Hillary and his team with HRH Prince Philip also allowed for the Award to be quickly adapted into the United Kingdom and other countries (including New Zealand as the Hillary Award), now standing at over 130 countries.
In 2013 there were vast improvements in the results compared to previous years, with 60% of students achieving 5 GCSEs at grade A*-C including English and Maths, placing PACA as one of the top ten most improved schools in the country with an increase of +21%.
At one point during World War II there were plans to create a canal between the two harbours; this was not constructed but a canal reserve remains in place between the Tamaki River and Manukau Harbour, midway between the Westfield and Otahuhu railway stations.
Kate (Olivia Thirlby) is a young woman visiting her grandmother (Lauren Bacall) to talk about her mother Eve, but instead she surprisingly ends up as both chauffeur and chaperone on her grandmother's romantic dinner date with a widower named Joe (Ben Gazzara).
Evan Hunter, born Salvatore Albert Lombino, (October 15, 1926 - July 6, 2005) was an American author and screenwriter best known for his 87th Precinct novels, written under his Ed McBain pen name, and the novel upon which the film "Blackboard Jungle" was based.
Private eye Lew Archer finds himself the confidant of a wealthy, violent family with a load of trouble on their hands - including an oil spill, a missing girl, a lethal dose of nembutal, a six figure ransom and a stranger afloat, face down, off a private beach.
Though Pupunu only scored five career touchdowns (three regular season, two postseason), he performed a unique celebration after each, in which he mimicked twisting off the top of a coconut and drinking the juice, a very popular celebration among San Diego fans.
On April 16, 2008, "Senichi Club", a communication club comprising the readers of "Sekai Nippō", the Japanese division of the World Times, invited Mori over a lecture meeting at Shibuya, in which Mori cited India as an advanced country of information technology.
1992 - Presented the first of its continuing annual celebrations of the short story - Selected Shorts on Tour - a collaboration with New York City's Symphony Space, producer of NPR's weekly series "Selected Shorts" (now distributed by Public Radio International).
According to several Tibetan advocacy organizations, the Academy continued growing as monks, nuns, and lay students relocated and built residences, to become one of the largest and most influential ecumenical centers for the study of Tibetan Buddhism in the world.
Established in 1993 following the amalgamation of Eastern Secondary College and Heathmont Secondary College, the college operated as a dual campus school until it was consolidated onto the Waters Grove (Junior & Middle School) campus for the start of Term 2, 2003.
The Master of Library & Information Science Program educates students in the knowledge, skills, habits of thought and inquiry, and ethics of the library and information professions to enable them to be leaders in the state, national, and global information society.
In 1995, Muto starred in the Japanese thriller "Yajuu Densetsu: Dragon Blue", as Ryusaki, a suave detective who joins forces with a beautiful young spiritualist named Mazuki (played by Hiroko Tanaka) to solve a bizarre case of killings from a mystical sea creature.
After the Wall Street Crash of 1929, many stores shut down and laid off a considerable amount of their workforce, leading to economic hardships until World War II, when Watertown's industries switched from consumer products to war materiel, revitalizing the economy.
In October 2021, posting on a far-right conservative website, Mandel claimed that Jewish financier George Soros and the "deep state" were responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic, the Black Lives Matter movement, Antifa, and the January 6, 2021 assault on Capitol Hill.
ElephantDrive's first major product came in conjunction with the 2008 closing of early cloud storage provider and AOL property Xdrive when the service offered a free tool for migrating files off of the Xdrive platform, simplifying the process of switching providers.
The Dates Committee is established in accordance with section 42 of the Racing Act 2003, which requires the committee to determine, following consultation with each of the recognised industry organisations, the annual racing calendar that betting will take place on.
The choir has been well served by 27 pianists since 1886 and, coming forward in time, have included: Edward Taylor, Chas Martin, Colin Oliver, Iain Kerr, Judy Faris (née Galloway) with a record 27 years service, and from 1994 to the present, Linda Folland (née Kydd).
The word "Ewok" is not mentioned anywhere in the film, nor are any individuals referred to by name, except in the end titles, where names of the more prominent characters (Wicket, Paploo, Teebo, Logray and Chirpa) are shown, while the others are just listed as Ewoks.
UN Radio first produced radio and television programmes related to a peacekeeping mission in 1989, led by former United Nations High-Commissioner for Human Rights, the late Sérgio Vieira de Mello, who was killed in the bombing of the UN offices in Iraq in August 2003.
In the following decades, though, the name of the movement has acquired a negative connotation of an excessively affected and artificial literature, just the opposite of Moderniste Joan Maragall's Romantic theory of "the living word", that is, spontaneity in creation.
If a star grows outside of its Roche lobe too fast for all abundant matter to be transferred to the other component, it is also possible that matter will leave the system through other Lagrange points or as stellar wind, thus being effectively lost to both components.
Premack debated of the nature of linguistic performance in apes with Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky at the Centre Royaumont pour une Science de l'Homme, during one of the last moments when Jacques Monod could participate in intellectual debates shortly before his death.
Although digital E6Bs are faster to learn initially, many flight schools still require their students to learn on mechanical E6Bs, and for FAA pilot written exams and checkrides pilots are encouraged to bring their mechanical E6Bs with them for necessary calculations.
Brickhill was initially unimpressed by war fever, until the shock of the invasion of France and subsequent withdrawal from Dunkirk, coupled with boredom with his deskbound sub-editor job, caused him to enlist on 6 January 1941 with the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF).
In 1893, due to the climatic and topographic conditions, Curral Del Rey was selected by Minas Gerais governor Afonso Pena among other cities as the location for the new economic and cultural center of the state, under the new name of "Cidade de Minas", or City of Minas.
Eastham was by now becoming "one of the club's finest right-backs during the Southern League era" who was an indispensable member of the side; described as "robust and fearless", he became team captain and provided invaluable guidance to the younger members of the team.
On 26 May 2016, one of his grandsons, Brian Murphy, a member of the Real Irish Republican Army, was wrestled by Canadian ambassador Kevin Vickers as he disrupted a commemoration of British soldiers killed in the Easter Rising at Grangegorman Military Cemetery in Dublin.
Conn-Selmer and Rodgers, dominant in the market for larger instruments, also made electronic organs that used separate oscillators for each note rather than frequency dividers, giving them a richer sound, closer to a pipe organ, due to the slight imperfections in tuning.
Mario Rossi (29 March 1902, Bitetto - 29 June 1992, Rome) was an Italian conductor, noted for his solid and meticulous readings of a repertory ranging from Italian classics to Russian moderns such as Prokofiev, to the German operatic classicist Christoph Willibald Gluck.
On 3 April 2008, during the Bucharest summit, Nicolas Sarkozy announced that France was likely to rejoin NATO's military structure (In 1966 France withdrew from NATO's command structure, but not from NATO overall), and confirmed that he would send more troops to Myanmar.
Despite Skoff's relative success during his career of winning four top-level tournaments, his memorable Davis Cup moments, and reaching a career high world ranking of 18 in singles competition, he never managed to progress beyond the second round at any Grand Slam event.
More generally, fuzzy logic is one of many different extensions to classical logic intended to deal with issues of uncertainty outside of the scope of classical logic, the inapplicability of probability theory in many domains, and the paradoxes of Dempster-Shafer theory.
Launched on 19 April 1993, the 600 Series replaced the Montego saloon in the Rover range, but because the 600 was positioned considerably further upmarket in relation to its predecessor, the entry-level Montego models were kept in production primarily for the fleet market.
In 1946, he competed, with his Delahaye 135CS, in several races including the Grand Prix of Bourgogne - Dijon where he finished in fourth position and the Le Mans Grand Prix, raced on the Nantes race track this year, where he finished in fifth position, driving a Delahaye.
On March 5, 2016, the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority opened the Metro Gold Line foothill extension, expanding the current light rail service that previously traveled from East LA to Pasadena through Downtown LA to a new Northern terminus in Azusa.
In addition to their regular games with AFC North rivals, the Browns played teams from the AFC South and NFC North as per the schedule rotation, and also played intraconference games against the Miami Dolphins and the Oakland Raiders based on divisional positions from 2004.
During the 1993 reform of the British honours system the British Government decided to make no new appointments to the Imperial Service Order; the Imperial Service Medal, however, continues to be awarded in recognition of certain individuals who make positive contributions.
The First Federal Electoral District of Colima " (I Distrito Electoral Federal de Colima)" is one of the 300 Electoral Districts into which Mexico is divided for the purpose of elections to the federal Chamber of Deputies and one of two such districts in the state of Colima.
For the band's 2012 tour, Van Halen used a variant of the Frankenstrat with the black-and-white capped-bridge pickup from his Wolfgang models, a maple Wolfgang neck with a black headstock and a Wolfgang-style volume knob, this guitar is replica of his original Frankenstrat.
English geologist and palaeobotanist Chris Berry described "Wattieza casasii" in 2000 from fossil branches collected from Middle Devonian strata - green mudstones and shales close to the base of the Campo Chico Formation, Givetian - in Cano Colorado, Perija Range, Venezuela.
Within its efforts regarding a coherent European legal framework, the European Commission published a green paper for a European contract law in July 2010 where it puts seven options for the further handling with the prepared Draft Common Frame of Reference up for discussion.
In the scenario that either Kalla or Megawati would have lost his or her bid for the presidency in the first election round, one candidate would have supported the other in the second round, as agreed upon by the grand coalition formed to oppose incumbent President Yudhoyono.
In January 2020, the school announced that it would close at the end of the 2019-2020 school year, citing decreased enrollment figures, a shrinking endowment, and the high cost of living in San Francisco that makes affording private school tuition difficult for many families.
In any case, Goar's Alans are universally identified with the Alans of Orléans, who helped repel Attila's invasion in 451, and who were led at that time by Sangiban - putting the end of Goar's reign, if the identification with Eochar is accepted, somewhere between 446 and 450.
"The Simpsons" episode "The Regina Monologues" had the Simpson family getting into all sorts of trouble in England due to their boorish behavior, which results from ignorance of and unconcern for the local culture.
The album gained a Silver certification in April 2001, shortly before the release of breakthrough album "Echo Park", and then went Gold in March 2003 after the extended commercial recognition of "Comfort In Sound", thus making the album an overdue commercial success sales-wise.
By the 1970s, as a result of oil wealth and government modernization policies, economic and social development progressed at an extremely rapid rate, transforming the infrastructure and educational system of the country; in foreign policy, close ties with the US were developed.
Conventional escalating-dose immunotherapy (not EPD) has been used to treat tens of millions of people in the United States with appropriate medical supervision with a death rate of less than one in one million according to the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology.
According to the Human Rights Monitoring Group of Ethnic Minorities, on the updated list of place names of the Ministry of Justice Public Registry, Azerbaijani-sounding names of 30 more villages (18 in Marneuli and 12 in Tsalka) were changed to Georgian-sounding ones in 2010-2011.
The "Denver Post" newspaper stated that candidates who promised reform won the majority of local school board elections across Colorado in the November 2013 off-year election, and that O'Brien, as well as her fellow winners for Denver School Board positions, were reform candidates.
Under articulation theory mediation becomes a complex, indeterminate process by which social meanings are circulated under the historical conditions of a given culture and social actors take up these meanings or not based on a complex interplay of all the parts of the social whole.
Just before the broadcast of the second season on The N, viewers had a chance to see Alexz Johnson in concert in a show called "Instant Star: Backstage Pass", singing two of the songs from each season of the show and accompanied by her band from the show, Spiederman Mind Explosion.
An Islamic copper smelting and trading community of 250-400 residents flourished in the area during the Umayyad Period (700-900 CE); its remains were found and excavated in 1989, at the northern edge of modern Eilat, between what is now the industrial zone and nearby Kibbutz Eilot.
Due to its growing international popularity (several countries, including Australia and the UK, adopted IGES as their own National Standards for PMI interoperability), support was added to the TEXT (Type 212) entity to support the ISO 8859 (Latin-1) alphabet for European characters.
Moreover, German public opinion in the late-19th century viewed colonial acquisitions as a true indication of having achieved full nationhood, and eventually arrived at an understanding that prestigious African and Pacific colonies went hand-in-hand with dreams of a High Seas Fleet.
The remaining Saxon state became still more powerful, also incorporating new territories and was known in the 18th century for its cultural achievements, although it was politically weaker than Prussia and Austria, states which oppressed Saxony from the north and south, respectively.
After a rally in 1989, at which Dr Kalim Siddiqui, director of the Muslim Institute in London, suggested that there should be a vote on whether Salman Rushdie should die for his blasphemous novel "The Satanic Verses", Sachs ordered the BBC to give their film of the rally to the police.
Students are also eligible to attend Cumberland County Technology Education Center in Vineland, serving students from the entire county in its full-time technical training programs, which are offered without charge to students, paid for by tax dollars of those who are county residents.
Because of its diverse, localized and partially text-based content, the channel is among the most popular choices in the Greater Toronto Area and much of Southern Ontario (outside of Ottawa) for screening in public places such as waiting areas, train stations, restaurants, and lounges.
Depending on the application architecture and the third-party components used (such as external libraries or frameworks), custom checks should be defined along the lines drawn by the above list of best practices to ensure a better assessment of the reliability of the delivered software.
Now in its 25th year, PASSIA is proud to be able to say that its publications have become a sought-after reference source for academics, diplomats, professionals, libraries and anyone with an interest in Palestine, the field of international affairs, and developments in the Middle East.
Socially, the population centres of Amman, Salt, Zarqa and Madaba form together one large metropolitan area in which business interactions in these cities are under the influence of Amman, while the cities of Jerash, Ajloun, and Mafraq are mostly under the influence of the city of Irbid.
As international relations developed, it became customary to give the highest title of diplomatic rank - ambassador - to the head of all permanent missions in any country, except as a temporary expression of down-graded relations or where representation was merely an interim arrangement.
The name "slop" was originally naval slang for the cheap ready-made clothing that a naval rating would purchase in lieu of an official uniform (which ratings in the British Royal Navy, at least, did not have until 1857) sometimes from a "slop chest" maintained on board ship by the purser.
At least 52 Penn alumni have served in state legislatures in at least 18 states (at least five of whom have served as speaker of their respective houses of representatives (in Maine, New Jersey, Oregon, and Pennsylvania) and one of whom served as President of state Senate (in New Jersey)).
In a short space of time, Bacamarte's newly opened asylum, popularly named "the Green House" ("Casa Verde"), passes to take inside of its walls not only mentally ill patients but also healthy citizens who, according to the doctor's diagnoses, are about to develop some sort of mental illness.
Early photographs of the Strahan wharf and buildings adjacent taken from the north usually have the railway tracks in the lower section of the photograph, as the line followed the shore from Regatta Point around the bay before passing northward in what is considered to be West Strahan today.
The Urban Roads department collects data for planning and development of road infrastructure in the district, assists with the evaluation of road designs by consultants, and ensures that funds from road fund and other sources are used for the designated roads in line with approved standards.
Before the ceremony the youngsters can attend specially arranged events and courses, in which they work on topics like history and multiculturalism, culture and creativity, civil rights and duties, nature and technology, professions and getting a job, as well as lifestyles and human relations.
In the later Middle Ages, Catalan literature flourished in Catalonia proper and in the kingdoms of Majorca and Valencia, with such remarkable authors as the philosopher Ramon Llull, the Valencian poet Ausiàs March, and Joanot Martorell, author of the novel "Tirant lo Blanch", published in 1490.
In May 2007, a book written by Stanford psychology professor Philip Zimbardo, "The Lucifer Effect", questioned the mental stability of Pappas when the abuses at Abu Ghraib were committed, suggesting that after surviving a mortar attack killing Pappas's driver, Pappas exhibited erratic behavior.
Handley's Corner (formerly "Ballamenagh Corner") is situated just before the 12th Milestone road-side marker, measured from the startline at the TT Grandstand, on the Snaefell Mountain Course used for the Isle of Man TT races on the primary A3 road, in the parish of Michael, in the Isle of Man.
Recent remarks by Abu Daoud, the alleged mastermind of the Munich kidnappings, deny that any of the Palestinians assassinated by Mossad had any relation to the Munich operation, despite the fact that the list includes two of the three surviving members of the kidnap squad arrested at the airport.
One of the crossover storms, Iniki, crossed into the basin as a tropical depression, strengthened to a Category 4 hurricane, and made landfall in Hawaii, becoming the most destructive hurricane in the state's history.
In 1264, after Sanlúcar de Barrameda was seized from the Moors by King Alfonso X of Castile, it was reconstituted as the capital of the Señorío de Sanlúcar, and became during the 15th and 16th centuries one of the most important ports for trade connecting the Atlantic coast with the Mediterranean.
Following the MRFF threatening suit over the "Crusaders" name and cross and shield logo for the Marine Fighter Attack Squadron VMFA-122, the Marine Deputy Commandant for Aviation directed VMFA-122 to revert the unit's identification back to the previous name and logo "Werewolves", on May 24, 2012.
In March, 2020, Pinto called upon the Jews of Morocco and the global Jewish community to comply with governmental regulations intended to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, in response to reports of Orthodox Jewish Haredi communities around the world defying restrictions on their traditional lifestyle.
Through the winter of 2015/16, Grand Union Canal milestones between Brentford and Braunston had their GPS coordinates recorded by a volunteer lengthsman en route between the terminals, as a "Special Lengthsman Project" and about forty had a daffodil bulb dug in alongside, for future identification.
Christian Democracy, which had been the leading political force in the region for twenty years, was the largest party, while the Italian Socialist Party, which controlled the post of President of the Region since 1980, made strong gains and came second at the expenses of the Italian Communist Party.
While this plumage only develops during the third or fourth year of life when the black-billed spoonbill is sexually mature, only about half of black-faced spoonbills with this plumage breed each breeding season, which contributes to the very slow pace at which the population numbers are increasing.
Some critics commented on the short length of the show, especially given that she was offstage for several breaks while undergoing costume changes, while others felt Carey was trying too hard to make the public like her, especially in terms of the "rollercoaster" metaphor she used to begin the show.
"Crain's" was originally planned to publish every other week, but with the demise of the "Chicago Daily News" that year, those creating "Crain's" decided to make it a weekly publication, using the end of the "Daily News" for marketing purposes and also drawing on editorial talent from the failed paper.
Naturally produced sea glass ("genuine sea glass") originates as pieces of glass from broken bottles, broken tableware, or even shipwrecks, which are rolled and tumbled in the ocean for years until all of their edges are rounded off, and the slickness of the glass has been worn to a frosted appearance.
This clause, in addition to setting out the scope of the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary, prohibits courts from issuing advisory opinions, or from hearing cases that are either unripe, meaning that the controversy has not arisen yet, or moot, meaning that the controversy has already been resolved.
In 1999, New Caledonian Baháʼí were attendees of "Partnerships for the Next Millennium" international conference by the Office for the Advancement of Women of the Baháʼí community of Australia, and then in 2000 the New Caledonia Baháʼí National Women's Association was established and based in Anse Vata.
Among Cote's most famous cases in recent years were the federal securities and ERISA class-action lawsuits brought by former employees or investors in WorldCom against former directors and officers of WorldCom; its auditor, Arthur Andersen; and more than 10 investment banks that sold WorldCom securities.
In addition to this, during the 2011 WSIS Forum, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between ITU and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) which will see IMPACT supporting both organisations in their collaboration to assist UN member states to mitigate risks posed by cybercrime.
Territories populated by nomadic peoples were harder to conquer, and although the Spanish explored much of North America, seeking the fabled "El Dorado", they made no concerted effort to settle the northern desert regions in what is now the United States until the end of the 16th century (Santa Fe, 1598).
Pakistan allows any citizen with a firearm licence to carry a concealed handgun, except in educational institutions, hostels or boarding and lodging houses, fairs, gatherings or processions of a political, religious, ceremonial or sectarian character, and on the premises of courts of law or public offices.
Solid-state NMR spectroscopy serves as an analysis tool in organic and inorganic chemistry, where it is used to characterize chemical composition, supramolecular structure, local motions, kinetics, and thermodynamics, with the special ability to assign the observed behavior to specific sites in a molecule.
In Czechoslovakia, the story appeared in the late 1970s as the black ambulance, while in Romania, the Volgas were replaced in the 1970s with Dacia 1301s, a modified version of the Dacia 1300 with several features not available to the public, which were eventually replaced by ambulances as well in the 1990s.
Firpo in 1930 gave up his tango career for a short while, to try his hand at cattle ranching, but he was forced to return to tango when the Paraná River's floods destroyed his livestock, and after that (trying to recover from the losses and trying his luck) he lost the rest of his fortune on the stock market.
Despite being an inner city school, students have access to large recreational spaces on campus and the College regularly utilises City of Vincent amenities such as Loftus Recreation Centre, Beatty Park and Britannia Reserve.
Following the removal of Blassie's remains from the Tomb of the Unknowns, the slab marking "Vietnam" over the crypt that once held his remains was replaced with one that read "Honoring and Keeping Faith with America's Missing Servicemen", as it was decided that the Vietnam crypt would remain a vacant cenotaph.
He and the Earl of Morton with William Maitland of Lethington were sent as ambassadors to Queen Elizabeth I of England with a proposal, for the strengthening of the bonds of amity between the two nations that she should accept as a husband the Earl of Arran, the heir to the Scottish Crown, which she declined.
After a months-long silence on Facebook, the band's official page posted on January 21, 2014 that [translated into English from the original Turkish] "Bubituzak appeared when Çilekeş was about to rest for a while", insinuating that Karabudak and Şimşek were now instead focused on their next project, Bubituzak.
However, Prime Ministerial primaries have been held in inter-party electoral alliances, such as the 2021 Hungarian opposition primary, and also in cases where a single party opted to retain its leader but select someone else as its Prime Ministerial candidate, as the Portuguese Socialist Party has done in 2014.
The Khmer Front Party also criticized the Cambodian government for getting government agents to follow the KFP's general secretary Mao Sam Oeun and KFP officials when the KFP said it was going to protest on a Saturday weekend that happened sometime during 2005 against the price of consumer goods and gas rising.
The improbability of the tale, the details of the saint's martyrdom, which are certainly untrue, and the fantastic account of the prodigies attending his death show that the writer, infected by the pious mania of his time, simply added to the facts imaginary details supposed to redound to the glory of the martyr.
To connect its shipping and logistics services with the global e-commerce market and expand its opportunities in less than truckload markets, the company acquired Freightquote, a privately owned online transportation broker that provides shipping rate comparisons for national and regional freight carriers, in 2015.
Education: Expanded Head Start, Early Head Start, and Relief Nurseries, referred an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to allow state matching funds for K-12 school capital construction (passed by voters as Measure 68 in 2010), and passed record investments in community college facilities on all 17 Oregon campuses.
After having previously worked with RED Distribution, in March 2016, Deathwish signed a global deal with Alternative Distribution Alliance (ADA), an independent distribution label under Warner Music Group that has also partnered with other punk labels including Epitaph Records, Rise Records, and Run for Cover Records.
In making a demand for an injunction under Paragraph (1) of Article 100, the patentee may also demand measures necessary for the prevention of an act of infringement, including the disposal of products constituting the act of infringement and the removal of facilities used for the act of infringement: Article 100 (2).
Other great athletic triumphs were achieved by the 1964 Clinton High School boys" baseball team winning the State Championship, the 1991 Clinton Giants winning the Midwest League baseball championship and by the 1992 Clinton High School boys" basketball team (referred to as the '92 Crew) winning the State Championship.
There are essentially three types of primary schools: the first and most common one is the primary school which provides a typical primary education - from Grades 1 to 6, then there is the primary school which has a primary and a secondary department, and the primary school which has a nursery and secondary department.
Edgar Feige, cognizant of the trade-off between efficiency and equity, suggests that the social and political costs of transition adjustments can be reduced by adopting privatization methods that are egalitarian in nature, thereby providing a social safety net to cushion the disruptive effects of the transition process.
Like Sublupatia, which was not only a station of the Via Appia, but also the node from where the connection to the Minucia, briefly testified by the Tabula Peutingeriana which also in the area no longer shows the Via Appia, but with greater precision by the Cosmographia Anonimo Ravennatis and by the Guidonis Geographia.
In software engineering, it is also considered good practice to develop or use abstraction layers for database access, so that the same application will work with different databases; here, the abstraction layer allows other parts of the program to access the database transparently (see Data Access Object, for example).
The Ninth Federal Electoral District of the Federal District " (IX Distrito Electoral Federal del Distrito Federal)" is one of the 300 Electoral Districts into which Mexico is divided for the purpose of elections to the federal Chamber of Deputies and one of 27 such districts in the Federal District ("DF" or Mexico City).
Moreover, the term "disturbed zone" was defined in the regulations to exclude shafts drilled into geologic structures from the surface, so the standard applied to natural geologic pathways was more stringent than the standard applied to artificial pathways of radionuclide travel created during construction of the facility.
In early 2012, his return to acting was announced by his theatrical agent issuing a statement that he had been cast to play the role of the Earl Godwin in the historically based feature film production "1066", but in June 2013, it was announced by the same source that he had withdrawn from the production due to ill health.
In April 2005, Raheel Raza, born in Pakistan, led Toronto's first woman-led mixed-gender Friday prayer service, delivering the sermon and leading the prayers of the mixed-gender congregation organized by the Muslim Canadian Congress to celebrate Earth Day in the backyard of the downtown Toronto home of activist Tarek Fatah.
Milne-Edwards suggested in 1874 that the Rodrigues night heron had reduced power of flight, an opinion which Günther and Newton corroborated in 1879 by measuring the known wing-bones and founding all of them except the scapula to have been reduced in size and strength, while retaining the same shape as those of other herons.
Chesapeake Bay: To manage the water resources of the Susquehanna River Basin to assist in restoring and maintaining the Chesapeake Bay so it meets or exceeds applicable water quality standards and supports healthy populations of living resources, including oysters, crabs, fish, waterfowl, shore birds, and underwater grasses.
The original format called for the two races to form a single race, separated by an overnight rest at half distance, however with several significant competitors retiring from the first leg a change to the regulations was announced on the Saturday evening, allowing retired cars to be repaired and restarted for Sunday's Leg 2.
Chartalists, like other Keynesians, accept the paradox of thrift, which argues that identifying behavior of individual households and the nation as a whole commits the fallacy of composition; while the paradox of thrift (and thus deficit spending for fiscal stimulus) is widely accepted in economics, the Chartalist form is not.
The Czech Republic agreed with the suggested approach in principle whereas the rest of the SF Member States supported further development of SIS II and appealed to the Commission to provide more transparency, mostly by submitting regular reports on the current state of affairs in SIS II development to the Council of Ministers.
Berry continued doing guest roles, but while performing a small part on the short-lived George Burns-Connie Stevens sitcom "Wendy and Me", both Burns and Stevens recommended him for the pilot of "F Troop" for ABC, a western spoof where he played the accident-prone Captain Parmenter - his first starring role in a weekly sitcom.
In the campaign for the 2015 General Election he publicly declared his support for the United Kingdom Independence Party, citing in at least one newspaper letter dissatisfaction with the Prime Ministerial record of David Cameron, and objection to proposals by the Conservatives to extend tax raising powers to the Welsh Assembly.
More recently he has toured the Guy Barker Jazz Orchestra - a 15 piece big band featuring Rosario Giuliani (alto saxophone; Italy) and Per Johansson (tenor saxophone; Sweden) - performing DZF, a reworking of Mozart's "Magic Flute" with Michael Brandon narrating the story as a Raymond Chandler-style novel, retold by Robert Ryan.
Lorimer in his famous work, "Gazetteer of the Persian Gulf", wrote that Daiyir consist partly of stone houses and partly of huts and is protected by a fort with towers, the population is about 5500 souls, including some Al-Nasur, some Bahrainis, and some Jews, but the bulk of the people claim to have come originally from Kufah.
After his death following a goring ("cornada") in the Plaza of Manzanares, he was memorialized by several poets of the Generation of '27, notably by Federico García Lorca in his "Llanto por Ignacio Sánchez Mejías" ("Lament for Ignacio Sánchez Mejías", sometimes translated under the title "Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter").
Christianity has deep roots in the Western Isles, but owing mainly to the different allegiances of the clans in the past, the people in the northern islands (Lewis, Harris, North Uist) have historically been predominantly Presbyterian, and those of the southern islands (Benbecula, South Uist, Barra) predominantly Roman Catholic.
In Canada all legislation enacted under Section Thirty-three of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (subsection three of the "notwithstanding clause") has an implied sunset clause of five years, this being the maximum length legislation enacted under the section may be operative for (unless an earlier date is specified).
C&S Wholesale Grocers, the northeast's largest regional food distributor, made its headquarters here until 2005, when they moved their administrative offices to Keene, New Hampshire; however, because of close proximity to Interstate 91, C&S still operates a large shipping and warehouse facility in Brattleboro near I-91's Exit 3.
For each ballad type in the collection, all variants in full text have been printed, up to a maximum of 25 variants, arranged chronologically (This means that for about 80% of the types, all known variants are exhaustively printed, while for the 20% remaining, only a listing of the variants is given beyond the 25 variants limit).
Browne's coffin-plate verse, along with the collected works of Paracelsus and several followers of the Swiss physician listed in his library, are evidence that although sometimes highly critical of Paracelsus, nevertheless, like the 'Luther of Medicine', he believed in palingenesis, physiognomy, alchemy, astrology and the kabbalah.
After an incident at their cottage in which Strieber is so convinced that there are alien beings inside the home that he pulls his gun out and almost shoots his wife, and signs that his son is beginning to have the same visions, he is finally convinced to see a psychiatrist specialising in hypnotic regression therapy (Sternhagen).
Prior to the introduction of FML, fuzzy logic practitioners could exchange information about their fuzzy algorithms by adding to their software functions the ability to read, correctly parse, and store the result of their work in a form compatible with the Fuzzy Control Language (FCL) described and specified by Part 7 of IEC 61131.
On May 4, 2023, James and her California counterpart Rob Bonta announced they would jointly investigate the National Football League over employment practices at its offices in New York City and Los Angeles, citing a report by "The New York Times" detailing complaints of harassment and discrimination made by former female staffers.
Born in Funchal in 1792, Arsénio was the son of illiterate unlucky emigrants forced to return to Madeira after a failed attempt to make their fortune in the Portuguese colony of Brazil; he soon started to work as a mason, like his father, but in 1817 he was arrested in Lisbon for joining a plot aiming to overthrow the king João VI.
Although calculations of the first 3×108 values of the sequence appeared to show its density converging to a value slightly different from 1/2, later calculations that extended the sequence to its first 1013 values show the deviation from a density of 1/2 growing smaller, as one would expect if the limiting density actually is 1/2.
In the film, a popular actor in search of credibility (Fox) uses his clout to become the partner of a streetwise cop with relationship problems (Woods), amidst the exactions of an elusive serial killer, "The Party Crasher" (Lang), who has vowed to clean up the streets of New York by executing various disenfranchised people in public.
Following announcement of the IBM 1620 on October 21, 1959, due to an internal reorganization of IBM, it was decided to transfer the computer from the Data Processing Division at Poughkeepsie (large scale mainframe computers only) to the General Products Division at San Jose (small computers and support products only) for manufacturing.
Nasr's case has been qualified by Swiss senator Dick Marty as a "perfect example of extraordinary rendition", and in Italy prompted a series of investigations and intrigues within the Italian intelligence community and criminal justice system collectively referred to as the "Imam Rapito" (or "kidnapped Imam") affair in the Italian press.
The city government states on its website that "Being the second-largest city in Hainan, the education in Sanya is relatively better than the average level in Hainan Province" but that the kindergartens are not as good as those in major Chinese cities and that the primary and secondary schools are still below the Chinese national average.
Born in 1935 in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia capital Belgrade to Serbian parents - kafana owner father Radojko Tanasijević and housewife mother Lenka Milošević - the mother gave birth while the father was away serving his mandatory Royal Yugoslav Army stint and she went to be with her parents in her home village of Čibutkovica near Lazarevac.
Founded in 1841 by the horticulturists Joseph Paxton, Charles Wentworth Dilke, John Lindley and the printer William Bradbury it originally took the form of a traditional newspaper, with both national and foreign news, but also with vast amounts of material sent in by gardeners and scientists, covering every conceivable aspect of gardening.
On 27 January 2015 Gauweiler voted against the Merkel government's proposal for a four-month extension of Greece's bailout; in doing so, joining 29 dissenters from the CDU/CSU parliamentary group who expressed scepticism as to whether the Greek government under Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras could be trusted to deliver on its reform pledges.
In July 2022, Isuzu, Denso, Toyota, Hino Motors, and Commercial Japan Partnership Technologies Corporation (CJPT) announced that they have started planning and foundational research on hydrogen engines for heavy-duty commercial vehicles with the aim of further utilizing internal combustion engines as one option to achieve carbon neutrality.
With Phase 1 achieved, the railway constructed a branch line into the National Mining Museum in 2011 before turning towards extending the line northwards, under a small road bridge and along the still intact track bed to Waunafon, the summit of the line which at above sea level was the highest standard-gauge station in both England and Wales.
Management, as part of the function of an excellent system with various characteristics, ensures that some of its structures are preserved, the regime of operation, the program, and its objectives are carried out successfully.
Combined with the general down turn in motorcycle market, the high cost of the parts and the inability to raise finance to implement volume production assembly methods, Hesleydon ceased trading and Broom continued to support and develop the bike alongside development work for other motorcycle factories and clients Broom Development Engineering.
"Timeshifted" cards also appear in "Planar Chaos", but are not direct reprints of older cards; instead, they are "color-shifted" versions of well-known cards (same mechanic, different color) and are printed in alternate frames, with normal rarity symbols (as opposed to purple ones from Time Spiral "Timeshifted"), and as a regular part of the set.
While at the Smithsonian, he has been awarded the 2011 Lifetime Achievement Award by the University of California at Los Angeles, the Statesman of Aviation Award from the National Aeronautic Association, the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Wings Club, inducted into the Virginia Aviation Hall of Fame and the International Aviation Hall of Fame.
Born out of increasing awareness of subspecialty gastrointestinal pathology services, increased marketing efforts by gastrointestinal pathology companies and increased patient awareness of laboratory errors, there is an increasing trend toward referral of tissue specimens to surgical pathologists with special interest in gastrointestinal pathology.
Under Schoomaker, combat training centers (CTCs) emphasized the contemporary operating environment (such as an urban, ethnically-sensitive city in Iraq) and stress units according to the unit mission and the commanders' assessments, collaborating often to support holistic collective training programs, rather than by exception as was formerly the case.
Thus, the Society's innovation may be seen to have nurtured the recognition and establishment in the UK of pharmacy and medical specialisms (and the subsequent founding of their specialist Royal Colleges and Faculties) including for General Practice, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Occupational Medicine, Public Health Medicine, and Forensic & Legal Medicine.
Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel ("HaHevra LeHaganat HaTeva"), or SPNI, is an Israeli non-profit environmental organization working to preserve plants, animals, and natural environments that represent bio-diversity, by protecting the lands and waters needed for their survival, and is Israel's oldest and largest conservation organization.
Geographically, it is situated on the border between the Swedish regions of Götaland and Svealand, divided between several Swedish provinces: The western body of water is known as the "Dalbosjön", with its main part belonging to Dalsland; the eastern body is known as "Värmlandsjön", its northern part belonging to Värmland and the southern to Västergötland.
As of 2022, five of the eight seasons have seen the first pick go to the club who finished last, or an expansion club in its first draft: in 2017, GWS traded the first pick to the Western Bulldogs; in 2019, expansion club Richmond traded the first pick to the Western Bulldogs; and in 2023 Sydney traded the first pick to Geelong in a once-off overage draft.
Yokochi's current research focuses primarily on problems encompassing advanced functional materials and energy problems including the development of nanocomposite materials, the thermochemical production of hydrogen, the storage of renewable energy using flow batteries, and the development of methodology to avoid biofouling on devices deployed in the ocean.
Several news reports, including one by Chris Cillizza, political reporter for "The Washington Post", compared the 2016 Donald Trump political campaign to "The Waldo Moment", a 2013 episode of the "Black Mirror" TV series; later, in September 2016, Brooker also compared the Trump campaign to the episode and rightly predicted Trump would win the 2016 election.
Located in Barcelona, one of the international capitals of Urbanism, the institution develops a multidisciplinary programme that explores urban and international territorial phenomena, placing especial emphasis on the opportunities that emerges from developing countries and the cultural, economic and social values that architecture may contribute to society.
Differential diagnosis of this type of patchy alopecia when it is in the non scarring stage includes trichotillomania and alopecia areata, in the late stage, when smooth hairless patches are present with follicular drop out, it can resemble scarring alopecias such as frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) and patchy central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia (CCCA).
However, with optimal neurological care, adherence to the medication regimen, and a good prognosis (no other underlying uncontrolled brain or other organic disease), the person - even people who have been diagnosed with epilepsy - in otherwise good health can survive with minimal or no brain damage, and can decrease risk of death and even avoid future seizures.
In a change from previous seasons, the experts will also do each and every challenge themselves in a room on the second floor, under identical conditions to the contestants, often before the contestants do the challenge themselves (so that they may observe the contestants during the challenge or for the purposes of demonstrating the challenge to the contestants).
When the pulp magazines began to diversify into particular genres in the 1920s, Leinster followed suit, selling jungle stories to "Danger Trails", westerns to "West" and "Cowboy Stories", detective stories to "Black Mask" and "Mystery Stories", horror stories to "Weird Tales", and even romance stories to "Love Story Magazine" under the pen name Louisa Carter Lee.
Greece's order of succession to the throne from the previous Salic law, prevalent in much of the continent, and which precluded the succession of women, to male-preference primogeniture, which accorded succession to the throne to a female member of a dynasty if she has no brothers, similar to the then extant succession laws of the United Kingdom, Denmark and Spain.
The following chart shows different honorifics used, along with their abbreviation in Hebrew and English, their translation, the masculine and feminine forms, the type of person which the honorific is applied to, and examples.
Since a partially filled ballonet would cause longitudinal instability, due to the mass of air rolling for or aft in the direction of pitch, two cloth partitions were used to divide the ballonet into three separate compartments; small holes in the partitions allowed the air to permeate gradually throughout the ballonet without affecting the stability of the airship.
The noun is normally used anyway when referring to specific sets of people ("five Frenchmen", "a few Spaniards"), although the adjective may be used especially in case of a group of mixed or unspecified sex, if the demonym nouns are gender-specific: "there were five French" (or "French people") "in the bar" (if neither "Frenchmen" or "Frenchwomen" would be appropriate).
Vasco SC president Nitin Bandekar and vice-president Vinod Parkot with local Vasco MLA and KYC Chairman Carlos Almeida, Vasco SC CEO Ajay Patil, former club president Vinod Parkot, the ex-Goa FA secretary Savio Messias and Nayan Tara Lima Leitao were attended during the press meeting to let everyone about the sponsorship for the betterment of the management of the club.
The company manufactured and sold a suite of wireless site survey tools, laptop analyzers, spectrum analyzers, handheld analyzers, network management and troubleshooting solutions (including wireless access point management via LWAPP), as well as wireless intrusion detection systems (WIDS) and wireless intrusion prevention systems (WIPS) products and VoWLAN instruments.
First edition most often refers to the first commercial publication of a work between its own covers, even if it was first printed in a periodical: the complete text of Ernest Hemingway's "The Old Man and the Sea" appeared in the September 1, 1952, issue of "Life", yet the generally accepted "first" edition is the hardcover book Scribner's published on September 8, 1952.
In his book "States and Power in Africa", political scientist Jeffrey Herbst argues that environmental conditions help explain why, in contrast to other parts of the world such as Europe, many pre-colonial societies in Africa did not develop into dense, settled, hierarchical societies with strong state control that competed with neighboring states for people and territory.
For cancer causes, the South, particularly an axis from West Virginia through Texas, leads the nation in adult obesity, adult smoking, low exercise, low fruit consumption, low vegetable consumption, all known cancer risk factors, which match a similar high risk axis in "All Cancers Combined, Death Rates by State, 2011" from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Employing the Greek proverb about the crafty cunning fox that devises many strategies versus the persistent hedgehog who knows one effective strategy, Gould offers a study of the division between the two ways of knowing, attempting to debunk the commonly assumed inextricable conflict between science and the arts as the two falsely opposed realms of the pursuit of knowledge.
Literary historian Nadeem Naimy assesses the group's importance as having shifted the criteria of aesthetic merit in Arabic literature: Focusing on Man rather than on language, on the human rather than on the law and on the spirit rather than on the letter, the "Mahjar" (Arab emigrant) School is said to have ushered Arabic literature from its age old classicism into the modern era.
He also played an important role the Summit of The Hague in 1969, where the European leaders decided to relaunch European integration with two new initiatives: on the one hand, Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union (EMU), and on the other hand, European Political Cooperation (EPC), which foreshadow the euro and the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union today.
In response to a survey conducted by TfL, which showed that 15% of women using public transport in London had been the subject of some form of unwanted sexual behaviour but that 90% of incidents went unreported, the Safer Transport Command - in conjunction with the BTP, City of London Police, and TfL - launched Project Guardian, which aimed to reduce sexual offences and increase reporting.
Although the expression of the capitalists" propensity to save is not as simple as the original, the truly remarkable thing is that no matter what hypothesis is adopted about the government budget, the Cambridge equation continues to hold, by depending on the natural rate of growth divided by the capitalists' propensity to save, independently of workers' propensity to save and the technology.
About the year 1514, he removed to Rome, where, under Clement VII, he held the office of apostolic protonotary; but having in the sack of that city (1527), which almost coincided with the death of his patron Cardinal Rangone, lost all his property, he returned in poverty once more to Mirandola, whence again he was driven by the troubles consequent on the assassination of the reigning prince in 1533.
To-day we are living in what is the first genuinely pagan age - that is to say, there are so many people, particularly children, who never remember having heard hymns at their mother's knee, as I have, whose first tunes are from Radio One, and not from any hymn book; whose first acquaintance with their friends and relations and other people is not in the Sunday School or in the Church at all, as mine was.
Amidst the new policy started by former president Hugo Chávez of re-assessing and valuing the role of Venezuela's caciques and indigenous peoples in a historical narrative which has traditionally given greater prominence to the Spanish conquistadores, Guaicaipuro's remains were symbolically moved (his actual remains have never been found) under ceremonial pomp to the national pantheon on December 8, 2001.
Labeled with 5-carboxyfluorescein and biotin, the collagen hybridizing peptide can enable direct localization and quantification of collagen degradation in isolated tissues within pathologic states ranging from osteoarthritis and myocardial infarction, to glomerulonephritis and pulmonary fibrosis, as well as in normal tissues during developmental programs associated with embryonic bone formation and skin aging.
The library has a print collection of over 40,000 circulating titles, patron wifi access, public computers, a fax machine, scanning and printing, AWE Kids Learning Stations, Overdrive eBooks and streaming audio-books, access to the Florida Electronic Library and digital research databases, audio books on CD, DVDs, magazines and newspapers, study rooms (by appointment), and exam proctoring (by appointment only).
In 1995, when his proposal to join the centre-right Pole of Freedoms coalition (composed of Forza Italia, National Alliance and the CCD) was rejected by the party's national council, Buttiglione, along with Roberto Formigoni, Gianfranco Rotondi and other bigwigs, formed the United Christian Democrats (CDU), leaving the PPI in the hands of the late DC's leftist factions, becoming part of the centre-left coalition.
On May 5, 2008, the United States-based company Greenberg Quinlan Rosner published results of the United National Movement-commissioned survey according to which the UNM had the support of 44 percent, compared to 12 percent for the United Opposition Council, 11 percent for the Christian Democratic Movement, 7 percent for the Labour Party of Georgia, and 4 percent for the Republican Party; 16 percent were undecided.
Based at the BBC's new television studios in a specially converted section of Alexandra Palace in London, Cock and his team thought that they had several months to learn about what making television would involve before the planned launch in November 1936, but soon after the initial meeting he was informed that programmes would be required for the Radiolympia exhibition in August, which was then only ten days away.
The book is then challenged on the basis that many 'facts' in Khouri's story were asserted to be incorrect or unfounded, including statements about geography (such as the run of the Jordan River through Amman, and the countries bordering Jordan) and restrictions requiring women to wear the hijab and have a male escort when they travel outside the home (contrary to depictions of women walking unescorted and uncovered).
Women's studies is an academic field that draws on feminist and interdisciplinary methods to place women's lives and experiences at the center of study, while examining social and cultural constructs of gender; systems of privilege and oppression; and the relationships between power and gender as they intersect with other identities and social locations such as race, sexual orientation, socio-economic class, and disability.
Two strains of the endophytic fungi "Pestalotiopsis microspora" isolated from stems of plants from the Ecuadorian rainforest were shown in laboratory experiments to be able to digest polyurethane plastic as the fungus's sole carbon source in anaerobic conditions, although many other non-endophytic fungi have demonstrated this ability, and most isolates of endophytic fungi in this experiment could perform this to some degree.
Under new manager Giovanni Trapattoni, Zambrotta also represented the Italy senior side at the 2002 World Cup, where Italy were controversially eliminated in the round of 16 by co-hosts South Korea, on a golden goal; during the second round defeat, Zambrotta was forced off the pitch with an injury following a hard, two-footed foul from Choi Jin-cheul in the second half of regulation time, and was replaced by Angelo Di Livio.
Because of the wide range and variety of rock formations around the world, rock climbing has been separated into several different styles and sub-disciplines, such as scrambling, bouldering, sport climbing, and trad (traditional) climbing another activity involving the scaling of hills and similar formations, differentiated by the rock climber's sustained use of hands to support their body weight as well as to provide balance.
Carrying similar objectives as Kuala Lumpur World Film Festival 2003, FINAS proposed in 2006 to the Malaysian government to organize an annual film festival named Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival (KLIFF) with a new brand, theme and business approach to benefit filmmakers, producers, creative and technical talents, film students, sponsors, business entities related to the film industry and film enthusiasts throughout the world.
Jerry Fielding (born Joshua Itzhak Feldman; June 17, 1922 - February 17, 1980) was an American jazz musician, arranger, band leader, and film composer who emerged in the 1960s after a decade on the blacklist, to create boldly diverse and evocative Oscar-nominated scores, primarily for gritty, often brutally savage, films in western and crime action genres, including the Sam Peckinpah movies "The Wild Bunch" (1969) and "Straw Dogs" (1971).
Pest management techniques applied to tephritid include the use of cover sprays with conventional pesticides, however, due to deleterious impact of these pesticides, new, less impactful and more targeted pest control techniques have been used, such as toxic food baits, male annihilation technique using specific male attractant parapheromones in toxic baits or mass trapping, or even sterile insect technique as part of integrated pest management.
Sacco & Vanzetti (Italian: "Sacco e Vanzetti", French: "Sacco et Vanzetti") is a 1971 docudrama film written and directed by Giuliano Montaldo, based on the events surrounding the trial and execution of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti, two anarchists of Italian origin, who were sentenced to death for murdering a guard and a paymaster during the April 15, 1920, armed robbery of the Slater and Morrill Shoe Company in Braintree, Massachusetts.
While the new library building was constructed, Cherry Hill Library members were served via interlibrary agreements by libraries in neighboring Moorestown and Haddonfield; and also the Camden County Library near the Voorhees Town Center in Voorhees, which had a longstanding inter-library loan agreement negotiated by the beloved longtime Library Director, the late Berniece Ahlquist, which she joked about at her retirement party at The Rickshaw Inn.
About 40% of patients experiencing postpartum bipolar disorder have puerperal mania, with increased energy or activity and sociability, reduced need for sleep, rapid thinking and pressured speech, euphoria and irritability, loss of inhibition, violence, recklessness and grandiosity (including religious and expansive delusions); puerperal mania is considered to be particularly severe, with highly disorganized speech, extreme excitement and eroticism.
Notable among these were Abby's efforts to facilitate educational opportunities for persons of African-American heritage during a very difficult period for such efforts in Virginia, notably her role with the establishment of the Bruton Heights School complex, which went far to equalize educational opportunities for blacks in the Greater Williamsburg community many years before judicial rulings and governmental mandates brought similar efforts elsewhere.
Maimonides, echoing the same sentiments, wrote that the genealogy of the nations contained in the Law has the unique function of establishing a principle of faith, how that, although from Adam to Moses there was no more than a span of two-thousand five hundred years, and the human race was already spread over all parts of the earth in different families and with different languages, they were still people having a common ancestor and place of beginning.
The latest compatibility charts, as of April 2014, shows AMD 890, 990 and A75 chipsets - and many Intel chipsets including Z68 and X79 chipsets - as being compatible with CrossFireX; they also show which GPU cards may be paired with an external bridge (HD 7750, HD 5750, HD 4350, HD 4550, HD 4650, HD 4670 cards may be paired without an external bridge, though the charts also indicate that some models manufactured by other than AMD may still require the bridge).
On the January 10, 2016, broadcast of the National Public Radio-syndicated quiz show "Ask Me Another", Cross appeared as a celebrity guest and performed well enough that at the audience's request the show's producers took the unusual step of allowing him to advance to the show's final, championship round; he then won that round and became that episode's overall champion, winning a prize package that included a pair of denim cutoff shorts that he himself had autographed.
With the evolution of Francoism, the Youth Front was adapting its aims and its composition to the political vicissitudes of the Regime; in November 1961 the denomination of Youth Front was changed to that of National Delegation of Youth, much less belligerent: and in January 1970, a major reorganization of the General Secretary of the Movement, the highest organ political regime, changes its name to National Delegation of Youth, with which it reaches the end of the Regime, in 1977.
Besides being the depot and terminus for many bus routes, it is the eastern terminus of the Market-Frankford Line (MFL) (also called the Market-Frankford Subway-Elevated Line (MFSE), the El, or the Blue Line), a subway-elevated rapid transit line in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, run by SEPTA, which begins at 69th Street Transportation Center just west of the Philadelphia city line in Upper Darby Township and runs mostly over and under Philadelphia streets to its terminus at the Frankford Transportation Center.
Beginning in the fall of 2015, former WKLH morning show host Carole Caine (who left that role in June 2015 after her contract was not renewed, too much local criticism against the station) began to perform various roles for Sinclair's Milwaukee operations, but mainly with WVTV, including acting as a station liaison for public events and taking over as the station's voiceover announcer, replacing various centralcasted voices which had come out of Sinclair's various national deals with announcers for their stations.
During the Western Schism, the Diocese of Ventimiglia (Vintimille in French) was split: the canonical bishop, still residing in Ventimiglia, obedient to the Pope in Rome, controlled the territories dependent of the Italian dogal Republic of Genoa, but an uncanonical line of rival anti-bishops (1381-1418), obedient to the Antipope of Avignon, established their schismatical see of Ventimiglia in Sospel (lo), with sway over the diocese's 'French' territories dependent on the County of Savoy and the lordship of Tende.
In an essay published in the magazine "Natural History" (and later compiled as the 16th essay in his book "Hen's Teeth and Horse's Toes"), American biologist Stephen Jay Gould made a case for Teilhard's guilt in the Piltdown Hoax, arguing that Teilhard has made several compromising slips of the tongue in his correspondence with paleontologist Kenneth Oakley, in addition to what Gould termed to be his "suspicious silence" about Piltdown despite having been, at that moment in time, an important milestone in his career.
School Psychological Examiners are assessors licensed by a State Department of Education to work with students from pre-kindergarten to twelfth grade in public schools, interviewing, observing, and administering and interpreting standardized testing instruments that measure cognitive and academic abilities, or describe behavior, personality characteristics, attitude or aptitude, in order to determine eligibility for special education services, placement, or conduct re-evaluation, or occupational guidance and planning.
Although there is no official demographic figures on Zahirism in Somalia, many Somalis follow methods of practicing Islam that aligns with Zahiri beliefs, such as a suspicion towards human authority regarding Islamic legal matters.
Other characteristics of Hungarian cuisine are the soups, casseroles, desserts, and pastries and stuffed crêpes ("palacsinta"), with fierce rivalries between regional variations on the same dish (such as the Hungarian hot fish soup called fisherman's soup or "halászlé", cooked differently on the banks of Hungary's two main rivers: the Danube and the Tisza), "palacsinta" (pancakes served flambéed in dark chocolate sauce filled with ground walnuts) and Dobos Cake (layered sponge cake, with chocolate buttercream filling and topped with a thin layer of crunchy caramel).
Peter Tewksbury wrote, produced, and directed all three episodes that aired as part of "90 Bristol Court" on November 23, 1964, and used the philosophy of Henry David Thoreau regarding simple living as a starting point for each of them: On "Karen", Thoreau influenced Karen and her complicated love life when she mistakenly made three dates for the same Saturday night; on "Harris Against the World", Thoreau inspired Harris to take his family fishing, only to find that he had to renew his driver's license that day; and on "Tom, Dick and Mary", Dick used Thoreau's philosophy as he attempted to fix several broken household appliances.
Council of the European Communities Directive 93/41/EEC of 14 June 1993 repealed Directive 87/22/EEC on the approximation of national measures relating to the marketing of high-technology medicinal products, as this directive had been superseded by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (5) and by Council Directive 88/182/EEC of 22 March 1988 amending Directive 83/189/EEC laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations (6).
The endowment today consists of a number of buildings and institutions built and supported by the "Gazi Husrev-begov Vakuf": the Gazi Husrev-beg Mosque, built in 1531 as the central object of the religious part of the endowment with a clock tower, Husrev-beg's and his turbe's and other supporting buildings, Gazi Husrev-begova Medresa with the Gazi Husrev-beg Library as the central objects of the educational part of the endowment, Gazi Husrev-begov bezistan, Morića Han as konak and as a caravanserai, Gazi Husrev-begov Hamam, imaret and musafirhana near clock tower, šadrvan, hastahana as a hospital, mekteb, Gazi Husrev-begov Hanikah as a Dervish's monastery with a boarding school, and large number of shops around the Baščaršija.
"Blue (Da Ba Dee) "is written in the key of G minor, with the vocal range spanning from C3 to E4, and is set in common time with a moderate tempo of 128 beats per minute.
Leah Revivo, who survived the attack at age nine, died in 2014 at age 52 from an infection brought on by a piece of shrapnel lodged in her brain as a result of the attack.
In 2020, a year after "The Big Bang Theory" went off the air, it was revealed that Kate Micucci, who ultimately got the role of Lucy, had auditioned for the role of Amy Farrah Fowler.
It originally had three tracks and two side platforms, although near the end of its life only utilized one track and one of the side platforms, due to the removal of the other two tracks.
Reid kicked off his run for Governor of Nevada in Las Vegas on October 15, 2009, with a second event in Reno the following day as part of an effort to gain recognition in Northern Nevada.
From 1979 to 1998 he was an officer in the British Army, serving with the Irish Guards and the Special Air Service (SAS), including in the first Gulf War, and in Colombia and the Balkans.
A hubcap is technically a small cover over the center of the wheel, while a wheel cover is a decorative metal or plastic disk that snaps or bolts onto and covers the entire face of the wheel.
In terms of pure win-loss differential, the Yellow Jackets would have easily won the title, as they had nine more wins than losses, compared to the +6 of the Bulldogs and the +5 of the Bears.
On May 23, 2014, as an impending free agent with the Red Wings, Emmerton opted to sign his first European contract, agreeing to a one-year contract for the HC Sochi inaugural season in the KHL.
In October 2009, the Reviser Special Commission of the Penal Code of the Parliament expressed its support of a proposal that tried to amend article 112 of the Penal Code, but it did not succeed.
On 8 August 1949, the now sixty strong orchestra went to Düsseldorf for a week's visit during which they gave four concerts, which were very much appreciated by local people who came to see them.
The "onsen" consists of seven establishments on the banks of the Mabechi River, and was developed from 1626 in the early Edo period for samurai in the service of the Nanbu clan of Morioka Domain.
In the summer 2019 it was announced, that Mészáros would continue as a playing assistant manager for the second team of Debrecen and also would be available for the first team if they needed him.
The King James Version is one of the versions authorized to be used in the services of the Episcopal Church and other parts of the Anglican Communion, as it is the historical Bible of this church.
In September 2009 BREIN CEO Tim Kuik attracted controversy when in a news conference he stated he was using a laptop confiscated from a "pirate" and given to him by someone involved with the case.
Next to the elementary school, based on the donation of Yehudit ben Moshe (who was a member of Mesilot and the first principal of its school), a special school was founded for children with autism.
When in a non-EU country where there is no German embassy, German citizens as EU citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country.
At the 2015 World Championships, where the senior Canadian team won the gold medal for the first time since 2007 with a perfect 10-0 record, Hall was named a member of the tournament all-star team.
Embarking 1,193 officers and men of the 125th Construction Battalion and 171 marines, "Sevier" left Pearl on 12 May with a convoy, which, after a brief stop at Eniwetok, arrived at Ulithi on 26 May.
Every year Tocopilla celebrates its anniversary on 29 September with a big show the day before, which includes a parade down in the main street of the city, food and fireworks display at midnight.
The legislation proposed in 2009 did not grant Norton the right to vote in the 111th Congress, as she would have had to remain in her elected office of delegate for the duration of her two-year term.
The core characteristic of a rompler, compared to a sampler, is that they do not have the ability to record new samples, or in case of software instruments, the ability to add user samples from disk.
The slow qualifying speeds of drivers like Delétraz resulted in the introduction of the 107% rule for the 1996 season - with some F1 fans nicknaming the new regulation the "Delétraz rule" as a result.
In the territory of Krannonas, at a place called Palealarissa, is the site of the ancient city of Crannon, the site of the decisive battle of the Lamian War between Macedon and Athens with its allies.
The Aeroshopping area - a center for commerce and leisure - operates 24 hours a day with shops, services, a food court, along with a triplex cinema, the first to be established at a Brazilian airport.
On 1 July 2019, Karl Curtis was announced as the new first team coach, taking over from Danny Langford who led the team to the Thames Valley Premier League Division One title and promotion in 2018/19.
In the UK, a yellowfaced bird was first produced in 1934-1935 by E H Stevenson of Cambridge - a yellowfaced Cobalt cock, and Mrs G Lait of Grimsby and J Long of Gorleston-on-Sea both bred them in 1935.
Folklorist John Jacob Niles based his well-known Christmas song, "I Wonder as I Wander", on a phrase he heard on July 16, 1933, in a song sung by a daughter of traveling evangelists in downtown Murphy.
A slow political and economic decline had begun by around 1500, and by the 18th century the city of Venice largely depended on the tourist trade, as it still does, and the Stato da Màr was largely lost.
In the First Libyan Civil War of 2011 the highway was an active component for combat movement and skirmishes, and when a section's access and transit is under control - a strategic and symbolic element.
The Hannas decided to leave Boston and return to the west, moving to Colorado Springs, Colorado, which they thought would be a good central location for them in his work as a Christian Science lecturer.
In 1999 the local branch of the NCPN in the municipality of Scheemda split from the party and continued as the United Communist Party (VCP), which has since won city council seats in Oldambt and Pekela.
In 2006, jtv was launched as a successor programme; however, "Rage" has re-broadcast episodes of "Recovery" each year, since early-2004, to make up for the lack of video clips from the ABC at that time.
The All Wales Convention also found that the current 60 members could handle the additional work that would come from further powers and there should be no increase in members as a result of more powers.
The cup win was to be a rare high point for Leeds though as at the end of that season they were relegated from the Premiership and Dickens left the club to seek further top flight competition at Saracens.
John Ford, who was only 23 years old at the time of this short's production, reportedly got drunk while filming and told producers that he simply ordered the actors what to do and then recorded the action.
The merged company had a fleet of 58 steamships and expanded its operations rapidly, first to other Asian ports and then worldwide, with a line service to Seattle established in 1896 and to London in 1899.
Joel changed his jersey number from 28 to 6 in season 2007/2008, which he scored 7 times and became the third top scorer in the team, and the top scoring defender among the Hong Kong First Division League.
The 1995 event was the first time over 10,000 runners participated, and women made up over 3,000 of the runners, the first time in North or South Carolina where over 3,000 women finished in a running event.
A handy leg-break bowler, he was also noted for his services to Victorian Cricket where after his playing days he served as a state selector and later as vice president of the Victorian Cricket Association.
Before Austria became a member of the European Union in 1995, passports had an outer light brown/inner dark brown cover ("Serie A-E") until sometime during the 1970s, when it switched to a dark green cover.
The COVID-19 pandemic has been seen as drawing attention to problems in the public health system in the United States and to a lack of understanding of public health and its important role as a common good.
Several accounts in Torah also indicate that bee honey existed in ancient Israel; in the Book of Judges Samson takes honey from a bee hive that he finds in the carcass of a lion (see also Samson's riddle).
The chief majority (about 90%) of Guyana's 744,000 population lives along a narrow coastal strip which ranges from a width of inland and which makes up approximately only 10% of the nation's total land area.
Giovanni Andrea Avogadro (1790-1805), who had been a Jesuit before the suppression of the Society of Jesus in 1773 by Pope Clement XIV, abdicated the see of Verona in 1805, to return to the Society of Jesus.
Following the release of Human Drama's debut EP "Hopes Prayers Dreams Heart Soul Mind Love Life Death" in 1988, the band flew to Wales to work with Ian Broudie and engineer Paul Cobbold at Rockfield Studios.
In the liner notes of the Hüsker Dü live album "The Living End", writer David Fricke noted that Mould had an embryonic version of the song "Compositions for the Young and Old" in the waning days of that band.
Richard Hamilton (January 23, 1836 - July 6, 1881), a Union Navy Coal Heaver, received the Medal of Honor for bravery for his participation in the sinking of the CSS "Albemarle" during the American Civil War.
A modified lecture format, generally presented in 5 to 15 minute short segments, is now commonly presented as video, for example in massive open online courses (MOOCs) or in programs such as the Khan Academy.
Beyond the recovery of heat by the heat recovery ventilation unit, a well designed Passive house in the European climate should not need any supplemental heat source if the heating load is kept under 10 W/m2.
The last track on the album, "Blanket Roll Blues", is the only song written by Tennessee Williams, providing lyrics for the song originally featured in the 1959 film "The Fugitive Kind" sung by Marlon Brando.
A new adaptation by award-winning playwright Kate Hamill had its world premiere in 2018 at the Jungle Theater in Minneapolis, followed by a New York premiere in 2019 at Primary Stages directed by Sarna Lapine.
Robert Franklin Sutherland, (April 5, 1859 - May 23, 1922) was a Canadian politician and Speaker of the House of Commons of Canada from 1905 to 1909, noted for his fine speaking ability and strong temperament.
As it cannot be guaranteed that the numbering of hard disks via dumb numbers is consistent, GNU GRUB can use the UUID to identify partitions (actually file system instances) - that have this feature - instead.
The IUCN Species Survival Commission Primate Specialist Group announced 2015 to be the Year of the Gibbon and initiated events to be held around the world in zoos to promote awareness of the status of gibbons.
The rest of the United States (except those who watched the game live on Canadian television) would have to wait to see the game, as ABC decided to broadcast the late-afternoon game on tape delay in prime time.
In his translation of the "Poetic Edda", Henry Adams Bellows comments that such the position of the stanza 140 in "Hávamál" appears to be the result of manuscript interpolation, and that its meaning is obscure.
His book "Irrational Exuberance" (2000) - a "New York Times" bestseller - warned that the stock market had become a bubble in March 2000 (the very height of the market top), which could lead to a sharp decline.
In April 2012 retail giant Freeman Grattan Holdings, now a German-owned company, secured a deal to open a new head office and house around 300 staff in a Grade-II-listed former wool warehouse in Little Germany.
In the game's Amiga manual, however, it was explained that "SWIV" was both an acronym for "Special Weapons Interdiction Vehicle" and also short for "Silkworm IV" (even though there was not a Silkworm II or III).
Notably, around this time the Z type carriages were introduced; these were of a similar design but with a saloon layout internally, with two rows of seats either side of a central walkway in lieu of compartments.
A person shot from about 1 meter with an 18x45T Osa pistol to the temporal region of the head suffered a penetrative injury, with the bullet traversing most of the brain, reducing the victim to a vegetative state.
Mary Teresa Norton (née Hopkins; March 7, 1875 - August 2, 1959) was an American Democratic Party politician who represented Jersey City and Bayonne in the United States House of Representatives from 1925 to 1951.
His song, "Built Right on the Ground", has been covered (under the title of "I Never Cried"), from the 1970s onwards, by John Miller (who first changed the title), Roy Book Binder, Howard Bursen, and Phil Heywood.
His parents were Baptists, and Bridgett was educated first at Mill Hill School and then at Nottingham; but in 1848 he was admitted to Tunbridge School, and on 20 March 1845 was baptised into the Church of England.
Hale's most recent stage role was that of Nell in a production of Samuel Beckett's "Endgame" at the Gate Theatre, Dublin and then the Barbican Centre, London, as part of the Beckett Centenary Festival in May 2006.
On December 31, 1987, the Chemical Warfare School was extinguished and, in its place, the CBRN Company was created, based in the city of Rio de Janeiro and subordinated to the Board of Specialization and Extension.
The prince in question - and the bridge's namesake - was Luitpold, Prince Regent of Bavaria, who had become Bavaria's "de facto" ruler after his (by 1889, late) nephew "Mad" King Ludwig had been removed from power.
On April 6, 1860, at a General Conference of the New Organization of the church in Amboy, Illinois, Joseph Smith III joined with the group and was sustained to follow in his father's role as President of the Church.
On 5 April 1996 the paper launched its website as a collaborative effort with Digital and Interbusiness (a unit of Telecom Italia), as an on-line trial version of the newspaper, created for the election of 21 April.
Peculiar Cromwell, captain of the "Calliope", spots the jewels (looted from an Indian ruler) Sharpe has sewn into his clothing and insists that Sharpe leaves them with him for safekeeping, to avoid tempting his crew.
Other recurring characters include Pol, a gay man acting student and classmate of David who works as a waiter in the Café Maurici; Ramon, Lopes's colleague on the radio; and Mercedes, the director of Ràdio Bofarull.
Ahead of 2006-07's second level, Remón succeeded former Real Oviedo and Real Betis player Oli at the helm of Cádiz CF, leaving shortly after his arrival as the club eventually failed to return to the first division.
Also upon his return to Portugal, Sacadura Cabral was asked by the War Minister to designate an appropriate location for a future hydroplane naval air station, which later became the Bom Sucesso Naval Air Station ().
For their 2017-18 season and part of the 2018-19 season, the arena served as the home of the Robert Morris Colonials men's basketball team for several games while the new UPMC Events Center was constructed on campus.
An extension of the Chilonzor Line south from Olmazor station to Quipchoq (5-Bekat) station in the Sergeli district of Tashkent was built in 3 years and inaugurated by President Shavkat Mirziyoyev on 26 December 2020.
The 2017 Paradise Papers revealed that Appleby carried out a risk assessment of Serco and noted it had a "history of problems, failures, fatal errors and overcharging" and had faced allegations of fraud and cover-ups.
Laurie and her mother, Cathy Anne, appeared as members of the audience in the October 6, 2010 episode of "The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson", and participated in Ferguson's opening monologue during the cold open.
After all these controversies in the year 2014, the Nepal Government dissolved the Angbuhang led CAN committee on 6 November and formed an ad hoc committee under former president Binaya Raj Pandey on an interim basis.
As a result, SKH in the 1970s became one of the most conservative sections of SKJ and remained interested in maintaining ideological and political status quo even when other branches of SKJ began to explore new ideas.
Eight years later the track was re-recorded with Tifa on vocal, and repackaged on Bijelo dugme's 1984 album "Kosovka djevojka" as "Lipe cvatu", which went on to become a huge hit and one of the band's signature songs.
Due both to its enormous cast and staging demands as well as to the extremely era-specific nature of the play, "Winged Victory" is one of the biggest hits in Broadway history never to have a second production anywhere.
On March 22, 2005, Hongō, along with the town of Daiwa (from Kamo District), and the town of Kui (from Mitsugi District), was merged into the expanded city of Mihara and no longer exists as an independent municipality.
Featuring an all-instrumental jazz-driven sound, notable for the prominent use of vibraphone, it has little to do with the psychedelic space rock of Daevid Allen's Gong, even though the two bands share a common history.
The death of his family members, together with earlier setbacks (including the traumatic stages in Delhi), lend a strong pathos to much of Mir's writing - and indeed Mir is noted for his poetry of pathos and melancholy.
The curl-crested manucode is the largest species of manucode, and also the largest and heaviest species in its family in terms of body size, weighing up to 450 grams though its tail is shorter than the black sicklebill.
Sri Lanka, having a history as long as many ancient civilizations, positioned at the crossroads of the East and the West, and being a multicultural society, celebrates a wide variety of festivals, ceremonies and events.
Although Hegel's discussion of absolute spirit in the "Encyclopedia" is quite brief, he develops his account at length in lectures on the philosophy of fine art, the philosophy of religion, and the history of philosophy.
If the number of combinations in a full factorial design is too high to be logistically feasible, a fractional factorial design may be done, in which some of the possible combinations (usually at least half) are omitted.
As the university grew between 2006 and 2011, the curriculum and degree programs were broadened, adding programs such as a Bachelor of Science in sports marketing and media, and a Master of Science degree in game design.
After its successful run at LIFE magazine, "The World we live in" was released in book form in 1955, abridged in 1956 for younger readers by Jane Werner Watson, and re-released in a three-volume "Family Edition" in 1962.
Teji Harivansh Rai Srivastava Bachchan ("née" Tejwant Kaur Suri; 12 August 1914 21 December 2007) was an Indian social activist, the wife of Hindi poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan and mother of Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan.
Kelly appeared alongside Kevin Spacey and Jeff Goldblum in David Mamet's play "Speed-the-Plow" at London's Old Vic theatre from 1 February to 26 April 2008 and at the Ruhrfestspiele in Recklinghausen, Germany, in May 2008.
The district's name is that of its northernmost point, the promontory Cemaes Head, though it may also hark back to the Cantref of Cemais, which existed from Norman times, and as the Hundred of Cemais from the 16th century.
Since then, a number of new genera and species have been discovered, the most recent being two new genera, "Kuboesphasma" and "Minutophasma", each with a single species, described from Richtersveld in South Africa in 2018.
As the diocese that was growing and the world was changing, Bishop Ahr took part in all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council, 1962-1965, and subsequently guided implementation of the council's decrees in the diocese.
By showing many different points of view and opinions on the issue of the riot, the play highlights that there are not just two sides, divided by race, but rather many different individual attitudes, emotions, and opinions.
On 9 April 2008 the President of Warsaw, Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, obtained from the mayor of Stuttgart Wolfgang Schuster a challenge award - a commemorative plaque awarded to Warsaw as the European capital of Sport in 2008.
With the neighbourhood being located on Russell Lake, many homes backing directly onto the lake itself, there are restrictions to residents including rules which restrict traffic on the lake due to the wildlife in the area.
In May 2019, NGD Studios was rebranded as Nimble Giant Entertainment with the hiring of former Rockstar Games executive Jeronimo Barrera as its vice president of product development, however he left the studio in June 2020.
Prior to making the decision to construct the new City Hall, council had considered annexing the Lister Block for offices and connecting it to the old City hall via an overhead, enclosed walkway spanning James Street North.
When not on tour, Bronson writes music for a wide array of TV including Californication on Showtime and Hellcats as well as movies including Friends with Benefits, 22 Jump Street and Home Sweet Hell starring Katherine Heigl.
NJ Transit bus service between Turnersville and Camden is available on the 403 route, with local service available on the 459 route operatining between Voorhees Town Center and the Avandale Park and Ride in Winslow Township.
In 2000, Weldon's novel "The Bulgari Connection" became notorious for its product placement, naming the jewellers not only in the title but another 34 times, while a minimum of 12 times was stipulated in the £18,000 contract.
Jaruzelski ran unopposed, but won by just a one-vote majority needed, as many Solidarity MPs, while supporting the agreement, felt just unable to cast their votes or, to not disturb the process, cast abstain or invalid votes.
After winning the OHA title, the Marlboros travelled to Memorial Cup hosted at the Montreal Forum where their opponents would be the Quebec Remparts and the Medicine Hat Tigers, who were led by future NHL star Lanny McDonald.
In Medieval times, the Baggara Arabs, a grouping of Arab ethnic groups who speak Shuwa Arabic (which is one of the regional varieties of Arabic in Africa), migrated into Africa, mainly between Lake Chad and southern Kordofan.
In 2013 and 2015-19, he has been listed as a "Rising Star" percussionist in the Critics" Poll of the leading jazz magazine DownBeat; he was also the winner of the NYC-based "UnCaged Toy Piano" composition competition in 2013.
By 1913, train ferries crossing the northern part of the Paraná River between Posadas and Encarnación began operating, thus linking the Argentine railway to the Paraguayan railway and to the country's capital city of Asunción.
Inspector John Fernack of the NYPD, played by Kevin Tighe, made his first film appearance since the 1940s in that production, while Templar (sporting a moustache) got about in a black Lamborghini bearing the ST1 licence plate.
In August 2009, BAD RAP representatives were again contracted by the federal government to evaluate two groups of dogs that were seized as a result of what is being called the largest federal dog fighting sweep in the midwest.
According to reports in May 2007, Portillo sued Guatemala in the Central American Court of Justice, in Nicaragua, to be reinstated as a member of the Central American Parliament (and thus regain his immunity from prosecution).
When goats are placed in different social groups, they modify their calls to show more similarity to that of the group, which provides evidence they may be limited vocal learners according to Erich Jarvis' continuum hypothesis.
The book, like Broodthaers' work in general, has gradually grown in stature since his death in 1976, and has found its way into a number of important collections, including MOMA, V&A, and the Royal Academy of Fine Arts Antwerp.
While "Aname" prefers dry open country and occurs throughout much of Australia (though mostly inland), "Chenistonia" occurs mostly in south and western Australia, and "Namea" is only known along the east coasts in rain forests.
The name "stella polaris" was coined in the Renaissance, even though at that time it was well recognized that it was several degrees away from the celestial pole; Gemma Frisius in the year 1547 determined this distance as 3°8'.
Although the public has come to value the presence in the mountains of large predators such as bears, wolves and snow leopards, the local people tend not share that view, since the wildlife preys upon their livestock and crops.
The ACLU of Texas delivered a letter to school board members and the superintendent in April 2022 claiming that the district's book removals violated the First Amendment, the Texas Constitution, and the district's own policies.
The word "Lollywood" is a portmanteau of "Lahore" and "Hollywood", coined in 1989 by Glamour magazine gossip columnist Saleem Nasir, and is usually used comparatively with respect to other film industries in South Asian cinema.
In the ensuing years, neither the Ministry of Culture nor any of the Cambodian cultural or political establishments were able to raise the finances to restore the theatre and succeed with the proposals resulting in a stalemate.
While funding was guaranteed for 100 places, this had to be renewed each year and without an official status the program was not reviewed, extended, updated or otherwise maintained beyond that required to maintain its 1997 form.
Today, mutations in oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are thought to be responsible for malignant transformation, and the metabolic changes Warburg thought of as causative are now considered to be a result of these mutations.
The Orillia Terriers would be the most dominant OALA team in the 1930s, winning four straight OALA title (1934-1937) and three consecutive Mann Cup (1934-1936) becoming the first team of the Indoor Era to accomplish that streak.
In a memorable NCAA second-round game at the Coliseum on March 15, 1997, North Carolina gave head coach Dean Smith victory number 877, surpassing Kentucky legend Adolph Rupp as the winningest college basketball coach in history.
These functions allow the Amiga to move GUI windows around the screen rapidly as each is represented in graphical memory space as a rectangular block of memory which may be shifted to any required screen memory location at will.
On May 6, 2011, the American Civil Liberties Union's Sonoma County chapter honored Smothers with its Jack Green Civil Liberties Award for his work against television censorship and for speaking out for peace and civil liberties.
Article VI creates a Treasury Department and establishes the procedure for appointment of a Comptroller and a Treasurer, as well as their duties, procedure for removal for misconduct and replacement if the office becomes vacant.
The 2002 Giants season ended in one of the most humiliating losses in franchise history, featuring a blown 24 point lead and a catastrophic finish featuring both an epic special teams blunder and a controversial officiating call.
Under Georgia's "home rule" provision, county governments have free rein to legislate on all matters within the county, provided that such legislation does not conflict with state or federal law, or state or federal Constitutions.
In the first essay of the collection, titled The "Category of Sex", Wittig theorizes the class nature of sex oppression, favouring a social constructionist rather than biological essentialist view of the dialect between the sexes.
In addition, the IDF carried out aerial attacks against a structure used by Hamas to store and manufacture weaponry in Gaza City, as well as a tunnel located along the Israeli-Egyptian border near Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip.
In addition to NRPS, Nelson still performs with the David Nelson Band as well as with The Papermill Creek Rounders, a bluegrass group he co-founded with his long-time friend, Lowell "Banana" Levenger (formerly of The Youngbloods).
The 1957 Rodgers and Hammerstein television musical "Cinderella", recently revived by PBS, featured Lindsay and Stickney playing the roles of the King and Queen, one of the few times a Lindsay performance has been captured on film.
Some have also suggested that in the controlled conditions under which the TSST takes place, the emotional response elicited may simply be too weak and variable for it to be consistently correlated with the physiological responses.
In 2008, Phillips advocated legalization of marijuana, crediting it with helping her quit smoking cigarettes: "When I really, really, really wanted a cigarette, I would take a puff of pot, and the cravings would go away", she said.
In January 2022, a fight broke out between members of the Mexican Mafia and MS-13 at Beaumont federal prison, causing two fatalities and leading to all US federal prisons being placed on lockdown due to fears of retaliatory attacks.
When the club's lease in the Caledonian Hotel expired in 1883, new premises were bought at 20 Bedford Street (off Strand), with the club temporarily relocating to 22 King Street (near Covent Garden), whilst repairs were carried out.
On November 21, 2011, while traveling to Syria, Tarpley told Syria's Addounia TV that the Syrian Civil War was a NATO-CIA ploy to destabilize Syria using mercenaries and death squads against the population and the Syrian government.
In the southern part of the Ethiopian Highlands, a remote mountain region and the last home of the Ethiopian wolf, Graham Norton discovers that encroachments by the ever-expanding human population are threatening the wolf's survival.
In 1893 the self-governing colony New Zealand became the first country in the world (except for the short-lived 18th-century Corsican Republic) to establish active universal suffrage by recognizing women as having the right to vote.
From 1940 to 1943 the couple was in Brazil as part of the cultural wing of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, a program set by the Roosevelt Administration to promote American goodwill throughout Latin America.
After graduating in 1971 Barros Franco completed a residency in pneumology at La Clínica Médica of UFRJ and in the Pneumology Service of IASERJ's State Hospital, one of the best centers of teaching for modern pneumology at the time.
With the steam taken out of the rebellion, and the military forces heavily reinforced with the battalions from Eritrea, the Italians retook El-Buur on December 26, 1925, and compelled Omar Samatar to retreat into Western Somaliland.
While there is no significant separation of the legislative and executive powers (the "political branches"), the High Court has developed an increasingly stringent doctrine of the separation of the judicial power from the other two.
In addition to responding to crime scenes and conducting investigations (along with the rest of the field team), McGee also serves as Gibbs' computer consultant and frequently assisted Abby Sciuto in the forensics lab when necessary.
Her mother, Angela Valdez-Ramos (1905-1978), was an educator, suffragette and daughter of the prominent Valdez clan of Batac, Ilocos Norte, making her a second degree cousin of Ferdinand Marcos, the 10th President of the Philippines.
King Arthur's Cave, located in the Doward area of Whitchurch parish, is a site of archaeological interest, with the discovery of an Upper Palaeolithic human burial and the remains of mammoth, woolly rhino, giant deer, and cave hyena.
Since the interface between each layer is unlikely to be perfectly smooth the roughness/diffuseness of each interface modifies the Fresnel coefficient and is accounted for by an error function, as described by Nevot and Croce (1980).
Reviewing the film in "The New York Times", Jeannette Catsoulis praised the sound design and the directing, but criticised the sequel's lack of terror found in the original film, and its anti-Catholic sentiment and repetitive staging.
"Spoon River Anthology" is credited as an initial inspiration for the "audio log" storytelling device in video games as it first appeared in the game System Shock, a narrative technique that became a standard trope of narrative games.
In 2014, the Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) banned the LGBT-themed film "Stories of Our Lives", made by a Nairobi-based art collective, from distribution or screening in Kenya, on the grounds that it "promotes" homosexuality.
The 2005 Elite League speedway season was the 71st season of the top division of speedway in the United Kingdom and governed by the Speedway Control Bureau (SCB), in conjunction with the British Speedway Promoters' Association (BSPA).
Though previous attempts at uniting the two kingdoms within Great Britain in 1606, 1667, and 1689 had proved unsuccessful, the attempt initiated in 1705 led to the Treaty of Union of 1706 being agreed and ratified by both parliaments.
At the national convention in 1852, a proposal was made to form a national women's rights organization, but the idea was dropped after fears were voiced that such a move would create cumbersome machinery and lead to internal divisions.
Though Gary Sheffield, in his biography of Haig, is largely supportive of his performance in the First World War, he describes Haig as "ungenerous" and "unfair" in his blame of Stuart-Wortley for the failure at the Hohenzollern Redoubt.
The strategic health authority was responsible for ensuring that the circa £10 billion spent on health and health care across the region delivers better services for patients and value for money for the people living in the West Midlands.
In England and Wales there is no blanket right of access to non-agricultural land, unlike Scotland, where the Scottish Parliament passed the 2003 Land Reform (Scotland) Act granting access for both land and inland waterways to the public.
Some of Bulgarin's stories are science fiction: "Probable Tall-Tales" is a far future story about the 29th century; "Improbable Tall-Tales" is a fantastic voyage into hollow Earth; "The Adventures of Mitrofanushka on the Moon" is a satire.
According to Rowling, this is the department that Hermione Granger joins, after the events of the seventh book, transferring from the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, where she began her post-Hogwarts career.
Owing to this somewhat cumbersome method of controlling the 8568, the maximum possible frame rate in bit-mapped mode is generally too slow for arcade-style action video games, in which bit-intensive manipulation of the display is required.
(1928 - 24 December 2019) was a Japanese photographer best known for her 1957 book of text and photographs "Kiken na Adabana", and particularly for its portrayal of the red-light district of post-occupation Yokohama, with US servicemen.
The name Farmington, which properly refers to the municipality incorporated in the early 19th century, is sometimes erroneously used to refer to the neighboring city of Farmington Hills (Farmington Township until 1973), which surrounds it.
While in parliament he was called to the Irish Law Bar as barrister on 3 July 1911, having been exhibitioner and prizeman in law University College Cork (1908-09) and honoursman King's Inns Dublin (1910), practising on the Munster circuit.
An agreement of 1769 between the owner of the manor, William Mitford of Pitshill at Tillington, and the tenants provided for the enclosure of common land to create woodland managed as coppice, although the areas involved are not specified.
Where there are teams working inside multiple entrances of a large structure fire, there may be standby teams designated at each entry point, although the rule does not necessarily mean two firefighters ready outside for "every" two inside.
Apart from his teaching and art-making in the late 1950s and 1960s, Kadish also moonlighted as part-owner of the White Horse Tavern, the legendary Greenwich Village bar where the British poet Dylan Thomas died from alcohol poisoning in 1953.
While the film's race is set in 1906, producer/writer/director Richard Brooks detailed that he was inspired by an actual $2,500 ($today), race, in 1908, created by the Denver Post (Western Post in the film), from Wyoming to Denver, Colorado.
Given the distance between La Quemada and the centre of Mesoamerica, this archeological zone has been subject of different interpretations on the part of historians and archeologists, who have attempted to associate it with different cultures.
CRUI (an association of Italian universities) sealed a 5-year-long deal for 2018-2022, despite protests from the scientific community, protests focused on aspects such as the lack of prevention of cost increases by means of the double dipping.
Several pollsters noted in the subsequent week that the public's perception of the debate might have been influenced by John McCain not looking at, or directly talking to his opponent during the debate, something many considered disrespectful.
Joined to Paraguayan Football Association in 1949, the club's first year in a Paraguayan Football Association competition, won the Paraguayan Second Division and were promoted to the Paraguayan First Division for the first time in their history.
Lourié himself makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in "Krakatoa, East of Java", portraying a lighthouse keeper on the coast of Java who observes Krakatoa's final, cataclysmic explosion and enters the lighthouse to send news of it by telegraph.
His style was avant-garde, using a geometry of shapes and planes, with thick strokes to define the shape and strengthen the composition, using colors and painting on various media such as oil paintings, etchings, illustrations and stage designs.
In April 2009, several former Centrebus services were integrated into the main network (mainly as services 620 and 621) while one further route (304) provided under contract to Hertfordshire County Council was transferred to Arriva Shires & Essex.
In the race for the 4th president of Kenya, Kalonzo Musyoka joined his longtime political opponent Raila Odinga to form the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) with Musyoka shelving his presidential ambition to run as Odinga's running mate.
According to the OAG, Sierra Mountain Airways, a small commuter air carrier, was operating scheduled passenger service into the airport in late 1988 with Dornier 228 turboprop aircraft with flights from Fresno, Oakland, Reno and other destinations.
In reality, for finite values of the wave amplitude (height), the particle paths do not form closed orbits; rather, after the passage of each crest, particles are displaced slightly from their previous positions, a phenomenon known as Stokes drift.
However, he controversially left Pakistan soon after and moved to England, which effectively ended his international career, but remained with KRL for some seasons, before eventually joining the renamed PMC Club Athletico Faisalabad in August 2008.
The practice of hiring beer wenches developed at the Sydney Cricket Ground and the Gabba during the late 1990s and, despite public criticism and being banned at some locations, persists at international cricket fixtures within Australia to this day.
The Spanish colonial authorities also pressed the prosecution of those who were arrested after the raid on the "Diario de Manila" printing press, where they found evidence incriminating not only common folk but also wealthy Filipino society leaders.
A round of climate change talks under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) concluded in Austria on 31 August 2007 with agreement on key elements for an effective international response to climate change.
Following media attention, in 1987 Cathy moved to Kooralbyn International School to be coached professionally by Romanian Mike Danila, who later became a key influence throughout her career; he provided a strict training regime for the young athlete.
Only after the revolution of April 25, 1974, SPM was able to fully work and achieve the objectives set by its founders: to promote mathematical knowledge and the quality of mathematics teaching and to disseminate the Portuguese mathematical research.
August 2004 Mehdi Moslehi presented the pre-feasibility study for development of Iran Oil Bourse to Wimpole's joint venture partner Tehran Stock Exchange Services Company and the pre-feasibility study report was passed to Dr Mohammad Javad Asemipour.
In addition, to prepare for the four-year university system, construction of Lingnan University's new academic building, Simon and Eleanor Kwok Building, has been completed, providing more teaching and learning facilities for the Faculty of Business.
Gustavus Adolphus Finkelnburg (born Gustav Adolf Finkelnburg, April 6, 1837 - May 18, 1908) was a United States representative from Missouri and a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
While in Brazil, Dom Joao instituted a number of reforms and decrees, most notably the one on December 16, 1815, which designated the Portuguese dominions the "United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves", making Brazil coequal with Portugal.
In response to collectors' interest in preserving their collections, products designed for the protection and storage of comic books became available, including special bags; boxes; and acid-free "backing boards", designed to keep the comic book flat.
In the 1930s, Neapolitan bank robbers attempting to dig into the underground vaults of the Bank accidentally discovered the skeletons of victims of an 1836 cholera epidemic, which after archeological excavation became known as the Fontanelle cemetery.
As the air and space component to US Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM), Air Forces Southern conducts security cooperation and provides air, space, and cyberspace capabilities throughout its area of responsibility, covering Latin America and the Caribbean.
Students are also eligible to attend Cumberland County Technology Education Center in Millville, serving students from the entire county in its full-time technical training programs, which are offered without charge to students who are county residents.
The squadron embarked on USS "George Washington" in June 2002 for another deployment to the Mediterranean Sea, Arabian Sea, and Persian Gulf in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Southern Watch, returning to NAS Oceana in December 2002.
The Hungarian Scouts-in-Exile were members of the Displaced Persons Scout Division of the Boy Scouts International Bureau, Council of Scout Associations in Exile and founding members of the Associated International Scout and Guide Organizations in 1976.
Recently a new, unique process to produce thermoplastic honeycombs has been implemented, allowing a continuous production of a honeycomb core as well as in-line production of honeycombs with direct lamination of skins into cost efficient sandwich panel.
Australian railway signalling varies between the States of Australia, because the individual States were responsible for the railway systems within their own borders, with, historically, no need to co-ordinate between states except at the boundaries.
"Sulfur: A Literary Tri-Annual of the Whole Art" was an influential, small literary magazine founded by American poet and award-winning translator Clayton Eshleman in 1981 while he was Dreyfuss Poet in Residence at the California Institute of Technology.
"The Radiolarian Series" takes its name from radiolarians (also radiolaria), amoeboid protozoa that produce intricate mineral skeletons, typically with a central capsule dividing the cell into inner and outer portions, called endoplasm and ectoplasm.
Education systems and schools play a central role in determining girls' interest in various subjects, including STEM subjects, which can contribute to women's empowerment by providing equal opportunities to access and benefit from quality STEM education.
Its roles and responsibilities include the "orderly development of the city" - zoning and building regulations, health, hygiene, licensing, trade and education, as well as quality of life issues such as public open space, water bodies, parks and greenery.
The University of Ottawa's Canadian Internet Policy and Public Interest Clinic filed an "Access to Information Act" request to see the government's position but received only a document stating the title of the agreement, with everything else blacked out.
Sarich was a proponent of sociobiology, evolutionary psychology, and that racial differences were real and represented evolved geographic populational differences (on average), which often caused him to be the subject of controversy by activists at Berkeley.
Some software authors offer advertising-supported versions of their software as an alternative option to business organizations seeking to avoid paying large sums for software licenses, funding the development of the software with higher fees for advertisers.
Since 2008, mobile operators T-Mobile and Vodafone pass mobile and fixed Internet traffic through Cleanfeed, which uses data provided by the Internet Watch Foundation to identify pages believed to contain indecent photographs of children, and racist materials.
In his book "Crack Capitalism", John Holloway considers abstract labour as the most radical foundational category of Marx's theory, and therefore he recommends the struggle against abstract labour as the centrepiece of the political struggle against capitalism.
The Canadian Forces Military Police (CF MP) contribute to the effectiveness and readiness of the Canadian Forces (CF) and the Department of National Defence (DND) through the provision of professional police, security and operational support services worldwide.
Gutowsky, McCall and Slichter related the intensities of lines to their binomial coefficients, proposing what turned out to be a correct explanation for such couplings, and suggesting a simple predictive rule that became a basis for further structural research.
Unlike earlier special-purpose systems for MD simulations, such as MDGRAPE-3 developed by RIKEN in Japan, Anton runs its computations entirely on specialized ASICs, instead of dividing the computation between specialized ASICs and general-purpose host processors.
According to literary theorist and Dostoevsky scholar Mikhail Bakhtin, "The Dream of a Ridiculous Man" is a modern manifestation of the ancient literary genre Menippean satire, and touches on almost all the themes characteristic of Dostoevsky's large-scale works.
In keeping with trends seen across Europe of role reversal of 19th-century missionary activity, PICS mentioned in its 2006 report, an increasing number of queries about organizations originating from Northern American Protestant and African evangelical movements.
After blasting their way through bandits and Apaches, they discover Colonel Pardee, another former rebel soldier (Edmond O'Brien), has set up a new Confederate headquarters, and is selling guns to the Apaches, including the ones who slaughtered Lassiter's family.
Three sociological factors affect the choice of politeness strategy and the seriousness of the face threatening action: distance between speaker and listener; the power difference between the speaker and listener; and ranking of the seriousness of the face threat.
Empathic design relies on observation of consumers as opposed to traditional market research which relies on consumer inquiry with the intention to avoid possible biases in surveys and questions, and minimizes the chance that consumers will provide false information.
His recent activities included launching a strong campaign against the government and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in relation to missing persons and formation of 'The Forum for Secular Pakistan' to counter the narrative of religious and sectarian hate and violence.
Based on a series of empirical studies of collaborative technologies (groupware), Orlikowski identified at least three types of enactment produced within different conditions and producing different consequences associated with humans engagement with technology in practice.
In 2015, Optimal Payments Plc (now Paysafe Group) finalized a transformational transaction for the global payments industry - the acquisition of Skrill Group, one of Europe's largest online payments systems and among the world's largest independent digital wallet providers.
Through conscious understanding of this process, which Fourier called "social science", new economic and social formations called "Associations" could be created, structured so as to allow individuals to follow their passions and in this way advance toward universal harmony.
Advertising agency MJW, celebrity photographer Garry Heery and production company Engine worked together to combine the latest digital animation with a dark and determined set that highlighted the passion players feel in representing their country on the international stage.
Low-power biocompatible memristors may enable construction of artificial neurons which function at voltages of biological action potentials and could be used to directly process biosensing signals, for neuromorphic computing and/or direct communication with biological neurons.
Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca is Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), Champion for UNIDO's Third Industrial Development Decade for Africa (IDDAIII) and Special Ambassador for the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO).
Each student-candidate must complete several key steps which include initial registration; the pre-certification review course; and all applicable sections of the official application in order to become eligible to complete the final step, which is the NCPRP certification exam.
Precipitation and morphological factors that influence stemflow timing and volume also affect the chemical composition; in general, stemflow water becomes more dilute during the course of a storm event, and rough-barked species contain more nutrients than smooth-barked species.
After assuming leadership in 2010, President Steven Corey announced the "Olivet College 2020 and Beyond Strategic Plan", which includes renovating existing buildings and facilities, creating a new student center, increasing endowment, and expand the student population to 1,500.
In 1975, Langley Research Center began to conduct sponsored programs studying two-dimensional thrust vectoring nozzles; government and industry studies of non-axisymmetric two-dimensional (2-D) nozzles in the early 1970s had identified significant payoffs for thrust-vectoring 2-D nozzle concepts.
Differential diagnosis of this type of patchy alopecia when it is in the non scarring stage includes trichotillomania and alopecia areata, in the late stage, when smooth hairless patches are present with follicular drop out, it can resemble scarring alopecias such as frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) and patchy central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia (CCCA).
Combined with the general down turn in motorcycle market, the high cost of the parts and the inability to raise finance to implement volume production assembly methods, Hesleydon ceased trading and Broom continued to support and develop the bike alongside development work for other motorcycle factories and clients Broom Development Engineering.
In 1964, the Britannia Yacht Club presented the Frank Amyot Memorial Trophy awarded to Junior Men C-15 Canoe Kayak Canada Canadian Sprint Canoe Kayak Championships, in loving memory of Frank Amyot, a life member of the club, Olympic Single Blade Singles C-1 Gold Medallist (1936), and distinguished member of Canada's Sports Hall of Fame.
Puncturella pseudanaloga is a minute species of deepwater keyhole limpet, a marine gastropod mollusc or micromollusk in the family Fissurellidae, the keyhole limpets and slit limpets.
Because "Physella acuta" forages mainly on epiphytic vegetation and on the macrophytes, whereas other gastropods ("Planorbis planorbis," "Radix ovata") exploit the algal cover or phytobentos on the bottom, competition between "Physella acuta" and other gastropods appears to be minimal.
The modern city of Kami-Amakusa was established on March 31, 2004, from the merger of the towns of Himedo, Matsushima, Ōyano and Ryūgatake (all from Amakusa District).
The lateral grey column receives input signals from preganglionic, myelinated fibers from viscera (internal organs), which course through prevertebral ganglia (between the visceral organ and the sympathetic chain) and paravertebral ganglia (in the sympathetic chain), white rami communicantes, and dorsal roots to synapse on cells of the intermediolateral cell column in the lateral horn.
Soil here has the expected shallow, lime-rich soil over chalk or limestone of the escarpment with lower parts of the escarpment summit here, where the topsoil has eroded, having slightly acid, loamy and clayey soils with impeded drainage, which makes that soil particularly fertile.
A live-action film based on the manga was released in 1970 in Japan, featuring Shōji Ishibashi as Joe Yabuki, Ryūtarō Tatsumi as Danpei Tange and Seiichirō Kameishi as Tōru Rikiishi.
The oxoeicosanoids are nonclassic eicosanoids, derived from arachidonic acid (AA).
The free online magazine, run by Teri Schure, financially relies on website design and optimize projects from other independent websites, educational projects such as publishing political maps, advertisements, as well as donations.
The Ngô Văn Lương orthography marks tones via diacritics written above or below the vowel as with the Vietnamese alphabet and only features 6 tones.
It is formed by phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and it can be acted upon by phosphopentose isomerase and phosphopentose epimerase.
It is widely believed that the development of the diaphragma sellae is a factor which determines the morphology of the sella turcica and its contents.
The program that Teruyoshi Uchimura produces shows things with an original technique and concept every week.
In 1999, he was awarded a special citation for a lifetime of writing and publishing on various aspects of Philippine culture by the Manila Critics Circle.
Quebecius is an extinct genus of porolepiform sarcopterygian fish which lived during the Late Devonian period of Quebec, Canada.
A bantam Brabanter was created in around 1934 by cross-breeding the standard-sized Brabanter with bearded bantams of the Polish breed.
The activity of ramelteon at the MT1 and MT2 receptors is believed to contribute to its sleep-promoting properties, as these receptors, acted upon by endogenous melatonin, are thought to be involved in the maintenance of the circadian rhythm underlying the normal sleep-wake cycle.
Commonly, the mixture called Schlosser's base is produced by combining "n"-butyllithium and potassium "tert"-butoxide in a one-to-one ratio.
In the Museo dell'alto Medioevo in Rome, there are important artefacts found at the end of the 19th century in almost two hundred Longobard tombs, from the 6th and 7th centuries, from the Arimannia settled in the territory of Nocera.
Interest in the Peranakan culture had begun as early as the 1950s with films from Hong Kong such as the "Niangre / Nyonyah" (Yue Feng, 1952), "Fengyu Niuche Shui / Rainstorm in Chinatown" (Yan Jun 1956), "Niangre Yu Baba / Nonya And Baba" (Yan Jun 1956), and "Niangre Zhi Lian / Love With A Malaysian Girl" (Lui Kei, 1969).
Devazepide is synthesised in a similar manner to other benzodiazepines.
Athletes will be able to enjoy comfortable, modern accommodation next to the beach with all the amenities for relaxation and cultural activities right on their doorstep.
The Rouran Khaganate arranged for one of their princesses, Khagan Yujiulü Anagui's daughter Princess Ruru, to be married to the Han Chinese ruler Gao Huan of the Eastern Wei.
Early-stage preclinical studies suggested that bexarotene reduced amyloid plaques and improved mental functioning in a small sample of mice engineered to exhibit Alzheimer's-like symptoms although subsequent studies have yielded mixed results.
The pupae are orthorrhaphous which means that adults emerge from the pupa through a straight, longitudinal seam in the dorsal surface of the pupal cuticle.
In 1973, Dunne was appointed a member of the second delegation from the Oireachtas to the European Parliament.
A molecular genetic study published in 2020 found that the rufous-tailed attila is sister to the cinnamon attila ("Attila cinnamomeus").
Allergic contact stomatitis (also termed "allergic gingivostomatitis" or "allergic contact gingivostomatitis") is a type IV (delayed) hypersensitivity reaction that occurs in susceptible atopic individuals when allergens penetrate the skin or mucosa.
Asantehene Otumfuo Osei Tutu II of the Empire of Asante resides at the Manhyia Palace in Kumasi, the capital city of Ashanti region and the Empire of Asante.
Shigetsugu was a veteran of the Battle of Nagashino (1575), Battle of Komaki and Nagakute (1584) and fought in many of the Tokugawa clan's major battles, and was known as for his ferocity.
Nitrogenous bisphosphonates act on bone metabolism by binding and blocking the enzyme farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPPS) in the HMG-CoA reductase pathway (also known as the mevalonate pathway).
New Zealand seafloor - The topography and geography of the seafloor in New Zealand's territorial waters.
The imperfect subjunctive is used in subordinate clauses taking the subjunctive where the sense of the verb requires the imperfect.
"Duke's Handbook of Medicinal Plants of Latin America" lists the following medicinal activities of "Dorstenia contrajerva": alexiteric, anti-HIV, diaphoretic, diuretic, emmenaggogue, febrifuge, leihmanicide, orexigenic, stimulant, tonic.
Some older HTIBs from the 1990s had a built-in VCR, besides a DVD, along with a TV tuner, and a hard disk for recording TV shows.
Because of egg predation, nesting failure is relatively high and white-breasted thrashers came with an anti-predatory strategy that consists of keeping their nests clean of eggshells and fecal sacs to reduce nest detection.
The buff-faced pygmy parrot (Micropsitta pusio) is a very small green parrot found in subtropical or tropical moist lowland forest in New Britain and New Guinea.
The internal iliac artery arises at the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, opposite the lumbosacral articulation, and, passing downward to the upper margin of the greater sciatic foramen, divides into two large trunks, an anterior and a posterior.
Evidence suggests that the yellowtail trumpeter naturally hybridises with another species of freshwater terapontid, "Leiopotherapon unicolor," on occasion.
"Bad Channel" featured a soundtrack album entitled, Bad Channels (album) that was composed and performed by Blue Blue Öyster Cult and also had feature songs from a few other bands such as Sykotik Sinfoney, Joker, Fair Game, and DMT.
Kumquats do not grow well from seeds and so are vegetatively propagated by using rootstock of another citrus fruit, air layering, or cuttings.
The Pakistan Air Force Academy at Nowshera Pakhtunkhwa was established in 1947.
Nakakoma District was founded from the split of Koma District during the early Meiji period establishment of the municipalities system on July 22, 1878 and initially consisted of 52 villages.
A gremiale, sometimes anglicized as gremial, is a square or oblong cloth or apron which a Roman Catholic bishop wears over his lap during certain liturgical ceremonies, in order to protect his vestments (especially the chasuble).
Choleretics are substances that increase the volume of secretion of bile from the liver as well as the amount of solids secreted.
The reptarenavirus family, responsible for inclusion body disease in snakes, shows a very high degree of genetic diversity due to reassortment of genetic material from multiple strains in the same infected animal.
The town of Okuizumo was one of the early centers of Tatara iron making method and remains the only modern site of it, producing a steel for the traditional Japanese swords.
After the surrender of Japan in 1945, the United States Education Missions to Japan in 1946 and again in 1950 under the direction of the American occupation authorities abolished the old educational framework and established the foundation of Japan's post-war educational system.
Nikoly (Nikolay) Nikolaevich Rudnev (Rudniev) (1895-1944) was a Ukrainian-Uzbekistani chess master.
In 1929, she inherited $3,000,000 from her mother's estate after the death of her mother, as well as the Goelet art collection.
In 1974, the World Health Organization included DPT vaccine in their Expanded Programme on Immunization for developing countries.
The intercavernous sinuses are two in number, an anterior and a posterior, and connect the two cavernous sinuses across the middle line.
Also, the two-bearing rotor design avoided the need for a high-temperature center bearing buried in the hot section of the engine (also characteristic of earlier designs of others).
In the wake of the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, and after the 1949 Armistice Agreements, Hizma came under Jordania rule.
Phenylacetic acid is used in the preparation of several pharmaceutical drugs, including camylofin, bendazol, triafungin, phenacemide, lorcainide, phenindione, and cyclopentolate.
In July 1974, the President was overthrown by the 1974 Cypriot coup d'état carried out by Greece, which was under Greek military junta rule.
Skype supports conference calls, video chats, and screen sharing between 25 people at a time for free, which then increased to 50 on 5 April 2019.
In 2005, a year-round interpretive centre was built in Fort Gibraltar.
Because actinomycin can bind DNA duplexes, it can also interfere with DNA replication, although other chemicals such as hydroxyurea are better suited for use in the laboratory as inhibitors of DNA synthesis.
"Chocotto Sister" was published by Hakusensha in the "seinen" magazine "Young Animal" and has been collected in 8 tankōbon volumes.
The first plantings of Aurore in Canada were planted in 1946.
In 1946, the Brampton library took on a relatively novel concept for the era, in letting residents under the age of 16 sign out books from the collection.
SIM's Sauvetage nautique provides marine rescue and ice rescue operations around the city.
At the outbreak of World War II in 1939 the 1st South African Irish Regiment was reformed through the efforts of Major Twomey, Captains Jeoffreys and Cullinan (the latter was the son of Sir Thomas Cullinan, of diamond fame).
A swimming pool is an artificially enclosed body of water that can be used for swimming.
The Indian cormorant makes short dives to capture the fish and a group will often fish communally, forming a broad front to drive fish into a corner.
The archaeocyathids were important reef-builders in the early to middle Cambrian, with reefs (and indeed any accumulation of carbonates) becoming very rare after the group's extinction until the diversification of new taxa of coral reef-builders in the Ordovician.
The East Andean antbird (Drymophila caudata) is a species of bird in the family Thamnophilidae.
The 2013 retrospective "Dalí" broke the museum's daily attendance record: 7,364 people a day went to see the artist's work (790,000 in total).
Tokugawa Ieyasu's maternal grandfather Mizuno Tadamasa rebuilt Kariya Castle in the mid-16th century.
Yun was also recognized as a prominent calligrapher, in which he followed the style of Chu Suiliang.
The myelencephalon or afterbrain is the most posterior region of the embryonic hindbrain, from which the medulla oblongata develops.
The prothonotary warbler is the only member of the genus Protonotaria and the only eastern warbler that nests in natural or artificial cavities.
The monastery of Panagia Goumenissa, was the occasion to create the small town of the same name which is the seat of the newly established (since 1991 AD) Diocese of Goumenissi, Axioupolis and Polykastro.
In 2002, the World Forum on the Future of Sport Shooting Activities granted Smith the Inaugural Sport Shooting Ambassador Award.
Mexican heavy metal band Velvet Darkness published a song titled "The Prince of Mist" on their debut EP "Delusion" based on Ruiz Zafon's novel.
"Hepsetus odoe" is found in western sub-Saharan Africa, from the Sassandra River in the Cote d'Ivoire in the west to the Shari River in the Central African Republic in the east, and southwards up to the Kienke River in Cameroon.
Hisako "Chako" Higuchi (, born 13 October 1945 in Kawagoe, Saitama) is a Japanese professional golfer.
In the fall of 2011, 28-year-old Lindsay Ess received a double hand transplant at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in an 11 1/2 hour surgery.
A few years later, the UK Government took steps to improve national competitiveness following the publication of cmd 8621, and Third-Party Certification of Quality Management Systems was born under the auspices of the National Accreditation Council of Certification Bodies (NACCB), which has become the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS).
The population of the entire prefecture was 3,140,678 at the 2020 census, and the population of the built-up (metro) area was 1,179,140 in the 2 urban districts of Shizhong and Dongxing.
Eupatorium luchuense is a plant species in the family Asteraceae found in Taiwan.
Below are some examples of Singdarin dialogue spoken amongst some Chinese Singaporeans.
Commercialization of copper indium gallium sulphur selenide (CIGSSE) thin film solar cell technology was pioneered by Professor Vivian Alberts at the University of Johannesburg.
In 1992, Southern Gold Resources, a US company, was granted permission to explore for gold in Adjuntas and Utuado, Puerto Rico.
Since 2005 the town has been easily accessible via the A17 express motorway Dresden - Prague.
Konstal 105N is a family of electric trams designed by Konstal, a Polish company based in Chorzów, produced between 1973 and 1979.
In 1976, the city of Ottawa parts of the riding were redefined.
In 1940-41, the Royal Canadian Navy Reserves scheme for training yacht club members developed the first central registry system.
On November 25, 1957, the decree-law 15460/57 was approved, which established the granting of licenses, leading to the birth of private television.
In 1972, O'Brien won the first six-man football state championship in Texas.
The Panthéon center houses the Presidency of the University of Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne.
"Hetero-" comes from the Greek word "ἕτερος" [héteros], meaning "other party" or "another," used in science as a prefix meaning "different"; and the Latin word for sex (that is, characteristic sex or sexual differentiation).
In August 2008, at the age of 51, he accepted an offer from FC Arquata, a Seconda Categoria amateur club based in Arquata del Tronto, Marche, to make a return into active football as a goalkeeper.
Results of a phylogeographic analysis evinces that the Caspian and Siberian tiger populations shared a common continuous geographic distribution until the early 19th century.
The mean absolute deviation of a sample is a biased estimator of the mean absolute deviation of the population.
Leipzig also hosted the Fencing World Cup in 2005 and hosts a number of international competitions in a variety of sports each year.
The Lady Barron Falls, a tieredcascade waterfall on the Lady Barron Creek, is located in the Central Highlands region of Tasmania, Australia.
In North America, this species is known as the black-legged kittiwake to differentiate it from the red-legged kittiwake, but in Europe, where it is the only member of the genus, it is often known just as kittiwake.
The North African sengi typically gives birth to litters of 1 to 4 young twice a year.
Thailand uses a unit of land area called the "rai," which is.
In 1959, the SCC became a founding member of the International Federation of Societies of Cosmetic Chemists (IFSCC).
Quality Hill is a historic neighborhood near downtown Kansas City, Missouri, USA, on a 200-foot-high bluff which overlooks the confluence of the Kansas and Missouri rivers in the West Bottoms below.
In Auckland a protest was held outside a Ponsonby mosque demanding the deportation of Palestinian and Lebanese immigrants.
By 1990, "Gnosis" counted a circulation of 11,000 and went on to achieve a peak circulation of 16,000.
Calcium lactate (or other calcium salts) is an antidote for soluble fluoride ingestion and hydrofluoric acid.
G protein-gated ion channels are a family of transmembrane ion channels in neurons and atrial myocytes that are directly gated by G proteins.
Spongivores also have enough brain development to be able to remember the same species of sponge it has eaten in the past and will continue to eat in the future.
In 2006 the St Andrews Fund for Scots Heraldry commemorated the hosting of the Heraldic & Genealogical Congress in Scotland by commissioning a ceremonial robe for the presiding officer to wear, however as of May 2017, it appears no presiding officer has worn the robe.
Slovenj Gradec Airport is a small airport located in the northern part of Mislinjska Dobrava.
This nucleus gives rise to the branchial efferent motor fibers of the vagus nerve (CN X) terminating in the laryngeal, pharyngeal muscles, and musculus uvulae; as well as to the efferent motor fibers of the glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX) terminating in the stylopharyngeus muscle.
Goldthorpe Library is a modern building (the previous library having been burnt down in an arson attack) in the middle of the town.
Due to the importance of the port of Almirante, it also attracted Chinese, Hindu and Jewish merchants in the early 1950s; Since 2002, a massive migration of Chinese entered the entire province, so it is normal to see them in their businesses.
In 2004, Moviecam released SL MK2, with updated drive system, support of 3 perforations negative pulldown and new electronics.
Hagimoto's first match in charge was a disappointing draw with, but his first few matches in charge after that were promising with wins over and to win the Super Powers Cup and pushed close losing 32-19.
In 1990, the first course outside Brazil was promoted, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where in 1995 the headquarters of PRÓ-VIDA were established and in 1997, a Country Club in the Buenos Aires Province.
The "refractive index (es) "column shows one refractive index for singly refractive substances, and a range for doubly refractive substances.
The casino advantage is the advantage that the casino has over the gamblers for each type of gambling game in the casino.
Pseudo-transparency is a term used for X Window System clients that simulate the appearance of translucency or transparency by manipulating the same pixmap that has been drawn on the root window, or by instructing the X Server that the Background Pixmap should be inherited from the window's parent.
Samba de Gafieira differs from the ballroom Samba, danced in International Latin and American Rhythm ballroom dance styles.
On February 14, 2014, WCAU, along with nearby NBC affiliate WBAL-TV in Baltimore, began to be shown on Comcast cable systems in the Susquehanna Valley after WGAL, the NBC affiliate in that market, was knocked off the air after a portion of the roof at the station's Columbia Avenue studio facility collapsed due to heavy accumulations of snow and ice caused by a winter storm that moved through the Eastern United States earlier that week.
In November 1928, Nu Beta absorbed the Theta Beta Rho Fraternity.
In 1858 his daughter Margaret Miller married the civil engineer George Cunningham of Lilliesmuir, Perth FRSE (1829-1897), who thereafter (due to the power of the Miller name in engineering) restyled himself as George Miller-Cunningham.
There is a well-regulated taxi service on the island.
On April 6, 1979, Tokar died of a heart attack in his sleep at his studio apartment in Hollywood, California.
Although "mescalbean" is among the plant's common appellations, it bears no relation to the "Agave" species used to make the spirit mezcal, nor to the peyote cactus ("Lophophora williamsii"), which contains the hallucinogenic alkaloid mescaline.
In the wake of the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, and after the 1949 Armistice Agreements, Al-Ubeidiya came under Jordanian rule.
Currently, GSTS owns a satellite television service G Sat and a free-to-air/cable news channel Golden Nation Network, which is also available in the company's UHF stations.
Since the beginning of 2008, the park has been partly occupied by the Caravan Club, who have built a camp site with eco-friendly facilities.
Two years later, the island participated in the omnibus issue for the 50th anniversary of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps landing in Gallipoli during World War I.
New diagnostic techniques, such as trichoscopy may be used for non-invasive differential diagnosis of cicatricial alopecia.
In 1999, Motoyama won the Le Mans Fuji 1000km at Fuji Speedway, driving the same Nissan R391 that he competed with at Le Mans that year.
A Dentist Anesthesiologist is a dentist who has successfully completed an accredited postdoctoral anesthesiology residency program of three or more years duration, in accord with Commission on Dental Accreditation's Standards for Dental Anesthesiology Residency Programs, and/or meets the eligibility requirements for examination by the American Dental Board of Anesthesiology.
The arrondissement of Brussels was one of the three arrondissements forming the province of Brabant, Belgium, or before Belgium's independence forming the French Dyle department.
Pennsylvania's child labor law establishes the age of 12 as the minimum age for workers in commercial occupations.
In this department the programme for work in the dockyards is prepared, as well as certain sections of the navy estimates.
As a part of the better administration of the newly established Kingdom of Ireland, the Parliament of Ireland passed the Counties of Meath and Westmeath Act 1543, the eastern portion retaining the name Meath and the western portion called Westmeath.
In 2018, after the theft of three Drill Purpose L103A2 rifles (modified SA80 assault rifles) from an Army Cadet Hall in Newport-on-Tay Drill purpose rifles have been taken into quarantine by the MOD; it was realised during the ensuing police investigation that the Drill Purpose rifles could be modified to fire live rounds.
In practice, most general purpose database systems employ conflict-serializable and recoverable (primarily strict) schedules.
At the beginning of 2008, the provincial government announced that it is interested in increasing its control of OSM, of which it owns 20%, buying another 20% from Saur International.
The Neighborhood House offers classes in English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) and offers technology support to low-tech older adult clients and neighbors.
In 1989, Young Ireland became the first Gaelic football team to have a sponsor's name on its jerseys, when Mike Hughes Finance became sponsors.
On 17 April 2012, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power's Board of Water and Power Commissioners approved a 10 MW FiT Demonstration Program.
"Pemberton Magazine" is also published once a year by Pique Newsmagazine for Tourism Pemberton.
In summer 1641 O'Neill was elected MP for Dungannon (Parliament of Ireland constituency) in County Tyrone in a by-election for the Irish Parliament of 1640-1649 replacing Thomas Madden, who had died in office.
The river valley is a natural route for the road and railway Niš - Prahovo.
Dingee Railway Station is the least used railway station in Victoria, recording 250 passenger movements in the 2020/21 financial year, less than 1 passenger per day.
The ferry service is not available from mid-October to early May.
The pelvis can be classified into four main types by measuring the pelvic diameters and conjugates at the pelvic inlet and outlet and as oblique diameters.
Greene, in his preface to the Penguin paperback edition of the book, derides the book as hopelessly romantic.
The Prince Edward Theatre is a West End theatre situated on Old Compton Street, just north of Leicester Square, in the City of Westminster, London.
Compared to other popular modes of passenger transportation, the car has a relatively high cost per person-distance traveled.
1953: The Cliffe Vale Fireclay factory was reconstructed, having suffered bomb damage during World War II.
In October, 2018 a 552-carat yellow diamond was discovered at the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada's Northwest Territories.
The krait is primarily ophiophagous, meaning it preys on other snakes.
Styles of traditional folk singing within the north eastern region mirror the rhythmic and melodic intonations of the regional dialect.
Notably the Vanguard High School class of 2005 still holds the record among all the county schools for the most eligible graduates in the history of the Marion County Public school systems records.
In 2015, Soho was given an honorary doctorate in humanities by the University of Northeastern Philippines during its 67th commencement exercises on April.
He introduced the expressions for Cartesian velocities in terms of generalized velocities.
Note: Although squadron numbers 465 and 468 to 479 were also reserved for the RAAF during the Second World War, it did not use them.
Physics engines, audio libraries, that are available as modules for game engines, have been available for Linux for a long time.
Damage to the abducens nerve causes monocular ipsilateral lateral ophthalmoparesis: specifically, loss of the ability to move the ipsilateral eye outward (abduction).
Postreplication repair is the repair of damage to the DNA that takes place after replication.
In August 2018, Dalley announced her resignation from Sky News Australia after 11 years to pursue new challenges.
For 1979, the 710 range was superseded by the correspondent next generation A10-series Violet in the Nissan Mexico lineup.
In 1967, the Seaboard Air Line Railroad merged with its arch-rival, the Atlantic Coast Line railroad to form Seaboard Coast Line Industries (SCL).
Armona Union Academy is accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Schools, Western Association of Schools and Colleges WASC accrediting organization.
Xenon flash lamps are gas-filled tubes used in cameras and strobe lights to produce bright flashes of light.
The R48 is a provincial route in South Africa that connects De Aar with Petrusburg on the N8.
Jankowski's bunting is given the highest level of protection under Chinese law, being added to the list of species named under the Wildlife Protection Law in 2021.
On Easter Sunday 1935, he set a record by swimming across the San Francisco Bay in two hours, 5 minutes.
This palm is best grown in Australia in the arid central regions, when provided with adequate moisture, and the wet tropical coastal to sub-coastal regions of the north-east of the continent, with the most success in gardens north of Coffs Harbour.
Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are L-serine and glyoxylate, whereas its two products are 3-hydroxypyruvate and glycine.
In 1999, Marsh disrupted a live television broadcast from Amarillo by the cable television network The Weather Channel when he performed a Native American snow dance in front of the cameras.
On February 21, 2007, Teague was released by the New York Jets, the last team with which he was signed.
The coastline on the Black Sea is a popular summer destination for vacationers, especially Odesa.
In 2011, podoconiosis was added to the World Health Organization's neglected tropical diseases list, which was an important milestone in raising global awareness of the condition.
In June 1992, at the Civic Center in Pensacola, Florida, United States, Castro lost a wide decision over ten rounds to future pound for pound king Roy Jones Jr.
It is a brachycephalic dog, flat-faced and short-muzzled, but this does not affect its breathing.
Cacography is also deliberate comic misspelling, a type of humour similar to malapropism.
In 1904 Borisov-Musatov had a very successful solo exhibition in a number of cities in Germany, and in the spring of 1905 he exhibited with "Salon de la Société des Artistes Français" and became a member of this society.
The Romans domesticated a relative of the Algerian hedgehog in the 4th century BCE, to use for meat and quills as well as pets.
In 1986, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit named its Nashville satellite library after Judge Phillips in recognition of his lifelong commitment to legal scholarship.
This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Bahrain at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund with figures in millions of Bahraini Dinars.
Post development the somato and splanchnopleuric junction lies at the duodeno-jejunal flexure.
Digestion of disaccharides involves breakdown into monosaccharides.
In 1945 he delivered the Bradshaw Lecture to the Royal College of Surgeons on the subject of fracture treatment.
On September 5, 1806, the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and the Crown signed the Head of the Lake Purchase, in which the Mississaugas ceded 70,784 acres of land bounded by the Toronto Purchase of 1787 in the east, the Brant Tract in the west, and a northern boundary that ran back from the shoreline of Lake Ontario.
Prince Carlo, Duke of Castro, much like his father, Prince Ferdinand, Duke of Castro, head of the line of the family descended from Prince Ranieri, Duke of Castro has claimed the title and right of Grand Master and bestowed the order.
The Battle of Faughart was fought on 14 October 1318 between a Hiberno-Norman force led by John de Bermingham, 1st Earl of Louth, and Edmund Butler, Earl of Carrick and a Scots-Irish army commanded by Edward Bruce, the brother of Robert Bruce, King of Scots, who had been hailed as King of Ireland by certain Irish chiefs.
In 1998, the rural area was united with the town of Kalinkavičy to form a single administrative unit covering 2,756 km2, with a total population of 71,500.
The London's weekly magazine "The Car" verified the death claims, discovering that some of them were only rumours, and investigated the actual causes.
Cockscomb is a fleshy growth or crest on the top of the head of a male fowl.
The Saintes Maries de la Mer Speed Canal, known to windsurfers as The Canal, is a man-made canal or trench near the French Mediterranean coastal town Saintes Maries de la Mer, built especially for speed record-breaking sailing by windsurfers.
The Walsh Brothers Flying Boats were aircraft that were used during World War I to provide training to pilots in New Zealand prior to their enlistment into the Royal Flying Corps.
The theatre has its own on site Café, Bar and Restaurant called Teatro, offering a daytime menu and pre-theatre dining which can be located on the marina side of the building.
The following is a list of the wilayat, or provinces, of the North African country of Algeria by population.
On September 12, 2017, Freeman was placed on injured reserve after sustaining a pectoral injury and a concussion in Week 1 against the Atlanta Falcons.
When the Sydney underground railways (now part of the Sydney Trains network) were constructed in 1927, Wynyard railway station was constructed by excavating the park and then rebuilding the park after the station had been constructed.
The declared intention of the trailbaston commissions was to combat increasing levels of violence and public disorder, but an added bonus for the crown was the revenues brought by forfeiture, which was the punishment for conspiracy.
Arnaoot received his initial religious training with Hanafi scholars, before breaking with them to continue his quest for knowledge through self-teaching.
The vinculin and talin components of the integrin-vinculin-talin complex are cytoskeletal proteins physically anchored to the costamere as a whole via the integrin components, which are transmembrane proteins that interact directly with filamin C of the Z disk.
The experience gained during the design and construction of the "Cassard" type was used for the design of the.
On March 8, 2007, it was announced at Toronto City Hall that STIP, along with PLANT Architect, had been awarded the $40 million redesign of the iconic Nathan Phillips Square.
*A fixed capacity bucket, associated with each virtual connection or user, leaks at a fixed rate.
Americade also offers a large motorcycle Expo located near the south end of Lake George, at the Festival Commons on Beach Road.
Wright was inducted into the Newark Athletic Hall of Fame in 1988 and into the Colorado State University Sports Hall of Fame the following year.
Grant joined the procession of handshaking with the swimming luminaries during the highlights of Australian Olympic 2008 Beijing Swim Team on the final night of these selection trials with the team successfuls.
On 15 July 1898 the Stanley Falls District became the District of Orientale Province (District de la province Orientale), with Stanleyville as its headquarters.
The manor of Ayarmaca was an ethnic group that in the primitive era of the Inca manor was in full splendor, being feared by the Incas and other small Cusco manors of the time.
The village can be accessed for long-distance travel from the north and west from the A3 at West Clandon - from the east the M25 at Leatherhead and the A24 at Dorking followed by the A25 road provides a shorter alternative route than taking the first route; there are minor routes south however the nearest major route directly south is the A24 at Dorking.
Two of his sons, Francis and Walter, obtained some celebrity as poets.
In 2009, Coradiant acquired Symphoniq Corporation, a maker of tools to track web transactions from end users.
In the 1993 New Year Honours, Thomson was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George, for public services.
Salvadora oleoides is a small bushy evergreen tree found in India and Pakistan and southern Iran.
The company claims to offer up to 3% lower fuel burn than the competition.
The 1978 Centennial Cup is the eighth Tier II Junior "A" 1978 ice hockey National Championship for the Canadian Junior A Hockey League.
Old Toby (died 1858), whose name was Pikee Queenah (Swooping Eagle), was war chief of the Tuziyammo (Big Lodge) band of Western Shoshone and a Shoshone dog soldier.
The following is a list of films that were released by Miramax Films when the studio was a subsidiary of Disney at the time of release.
Since 2006, at the request of Moldovan diasporas abroad, BNRM participating in the creation of libraries in Italy (Reggio Emill), Greece, Russia, Ukraine, Portugal funds by filling them with books and periodicals in Moldova.
In 1999, a nine-stamp block celebrating ten years of the Belgian Comic Strip Center was issued, with the center stamp a photo of Tintin's famous moon rocket that dominates the Comic Strip Center's entry hall.
The Port of Bar was the largest seaport located in Montenegro.
Severe "arching" (hyperextension) occurs due to stimulus by the anterior reticulospinal tract caused by the loss of the balancing inhibitory counter-stimulus of corticoreticular fibers, which normally act upon the pons reticular formation.
The electoral results of the PLI in general (Chamber of Deputies) and European Parliament elections since 1913 are shown in the chart below.
When James II of Aragon completed the conquest of the kingdom of Valencia, the Crown of Aragon established itself as one of the major powers in Europe.
Clark represented the electorate in the New Zealand House of Representatives for six years from 1908 to 1914, when he retired.
Stanisław Prauss made also a preliminary design of smaller development variant PZL Łosoś, which was to be a two-seater dive bomber with Hispano-Suiza 12Z inline engine and retractable landing gear, without underbelly gondola.
In Malaysia, Section 34A, Environmental Quality Act, 1974 requires developments that have significant impact to the environment are required to conduct the Environmental impact assessment.
The separation of Ari Atoll (formerly Alifu Atoll) into a Northern and a Southern section has formed the two most recent administrative divisions of the Maldives, namely Alifu Alifu Atoll and Alifu Dhaalu Atoll.
In 1991, WWDC saw the first public demonstration of QuickTime.
The nerve is accompanied by dorsal scapular artery.
Senai Airport Highway or Jalan Lapangan Terbang Senai, Federal Route 16 is a major highway in Kulai District, Johor, Malaysia that connects Senai International Airport to Senai, which from there connected to Johor Bahru via Federal Route 1 Skudai Highway.
As Commanding Officer of 37 Squadron, he was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest war-time military decoration in India.
This means that the generic decision theoretic models can handle outcomes that are induced by constraint satisficing requirements rather than by say payoff maximization.
Some higher-end ice cream scoops have a thermally conductive liquid in the handle to help keep the ice cream from freezing to the scoop's metal.
MD 118 is a part of the National Highway System as a principal arterial from MD 117 to its northern terminus at MD 355 in Germantown.
On June 27, 1971, the last Brentwood senior class graduated together as one 1,400 body of students enjoying the now demolished Commack Arena as the commencement site.
Museums in 47 European countries, all members of the Council of Europe, can take part in the competition if they are newly opened or have undergone modernization or expansion in the past three years.
A'beam back' event was held at the stadium in May 2015 for the 2015 Copa del Rey Final for fans who could not attend the game in Barcelona, with giant video screens installed on the pitch that the spectators could view from the stands.
It is known that Ho Chi Minh wrote in a mixed Vietnamese Latin-Hán-Nôm script.
The following is a list of mixed-sex colleges and universities in the United States, listed in the order that mixed-sex students were admitted to degree-granting college-level courses.
Since 2007, an annual prize of A$1,000 is awarded for the best paper published in the journal in the previous year.
A third ferry runs seasonally to join Wolfe Island to Simcoe Island.
The monarchy of Egypt was abolished in 1953, after the revolution of 1952, which caused King Farouk I to abdicate in favor of his infant son Fuad II.
Antony met Prince Louis for the first time while he was a member of the army.
The Association of Theologically Trained Women of India (ATTWI) is an association of Indian women theologians which was constituted in 1979 in Chennai.
In geology a tungsten carbide coated hydraulic press is used in the rock crushing stage of preparing samples for geochemical analyses in topics such as understanding the origins of volcanism.
The ranchería is served by the Pioneer Union Elementary School District and Oroville Union High School District.
In 2008, of vineyard surface was in production for Chambertin AOC, and 437 hectoliter of wine was produced under the Chambertin designation, corresponding to slightly less than 60,000 bottles.
Tomasz Rafał Lis (born 6 March 1966 in Zielona Góra) is a Polish journalist and former TV anchor of "TVN Fakty" ("TVN Facts") and "Wydarzenia" ("Events").
While still living in the north King Mangrai was visited by some merchants from the Mon Kingdom, and hearing of the wealth of Lamphun he determined to conquer it, even against the advice of his councillors.
H Street NE is also home to the country's first American Sign Language friendly Starbucks location on the 600 block of H St NE due to its location in the vicinity of Gallaudet University.
In 2011, the Biografilm Festival in Bologna, Italy, paid tribute to Iwerks through a multi-day retrospective of her documentary films.
As of 1992, about, or nearly 75 percent, of the projected area was irrigable, and were actually irrigated in Solano County.
In June 1987, for a concert in Peekskill, New York, Maestro, Carter, Torres, and Gough (The Original Crests) reunited as "The Crests," which was organized by Carter.
HOM furniture plans to move into the anchor in early 2020 in July, 2019.
On September 18, 2013, LoGrasso's wrestling school announced a partnership with Dragon Gate USA wrestling as a farm system.
In the 2005 general election, the victorious Liberal Democrats candidate in Taunton required the smallest percentage swing from the Conservative MP for them to take the seat.
The area has a large concentration of vegetarian and other upscale restaurants that serve Korean cuisine with a modern twist, namely on the main street from Bongeun Temple to Park Hyatt Hotel in Samseong-dong.
Due to the delay, temporary arrangements were made with United Christian Hospital for clinical teaching of the first batch of medical students, and the teaching activities were gradually transferred from United Christian Hospital to Prince of Wales Hospital.
The Port of New York and New Jersey is the port district of the New York-Newark metropolitan area, encompassing the region within approximately a radius of the Statue of Liberty National Monument.
In 1975 he co-founded the Black Parents Movement from the core of the parents involved in the George Padmore Supplementary School after an incident in which a young black schoolboy was beaten up by the police outside his school in the London Borough of Haringey.
Irish Ferries is an Irish ferry and transport company that operates passenger and freight services on routes between Ireland, Britain and Continental Europe, including Dublin Port-Holyhead; Rosslare Europort to Pembroke as well as Dublin Port-Cherbourg in France.
A function, its domain, and its codomain, are declared by the notation, and the value of a function at an element of, denoted by, is called the "image" of under, or the "value" of applied to the "argument".
She is currently a lecturer in the Centre for International Education and Exchange CIEE attached to the Charles University in Prague.
Endosymbiotic theory for the origin of mitochondria suggests that the proto-eukaryote engulfed a protomitochondrion, and this endosymbiont became an organelle.
Later the Radeon X550 was launched, using the same chip as Radeon X300 graphics card (RV370).
The essence of Noether's theorem is generalizing the notion of ignorable coordinates.
In 1972 Manguel returned to Buenos Aires and worked for a year as a reporter for the newspaper La Nación.
Programming language definitions usually specify compile time requirements that source code must meet to be successfully compiled.
Notably, KHNS is the only Southeast Alaskan public radio station that is not a member of CoastAlaska.
The following are the lyrics of the national anthem as sung, which differ slightly from the original poem.
On October 1, 1999, Brown became a world champion for the first time, when she knocked out Dee Dufoe in round ten to become the IFBA's world Super Bantamweight champion.
In 1968, Smith responded to the bombing of the gymnasium at Bluefield State College by offering a $5,000 reward for information leading to conviction of the culprits.
On April 14, 1873, the Supreme Court issued a 5-4 decision in favor of the slaughterhouse company upholding the constitutionality of Louisiana's use of its police powers to regulate butchers.
Thomas Coman (August, 1836 - October 22, 1909) was President of the New York City Board of Aldermen from 1868 to 1871, and Acting Mayor of New York for several weeks at the end of 1868 and beginning of 1869.
The Auckland campus caters primarily for international students is located in Queen Street, Auckland.
The Citroën C-Triomphe is a mid-size sedan produced for the Chinese market by Dongfeng Peugeot-Citroën, a joint venture between the French PSA Group (Peugeot-Citroën) and the Chinese manufacturer Dongfeng.
In 2018, Lufkin's crime rate was 4,666 crimes per 100,000 persons, which was an overall decrease by 2% from 2017; 134 violent crimes and 1,403 property crimes were reported.
On April 14, 1992, the Directorate General of Radio, Television and Films decided that Yayasan TVRI will phrase out the television tax altogether when, after one year, PT Mekatama Raya failed to increase the revenue from payments made by viewers.
On 30 September 1957, Sandford became the first woman television newsreader when she joined the BBC West Region's daily television news bulletin from its studios in Bristol.
American rapper Eminem also used the lullaby "Hush Little Baby" in the lyrics of his single "Mockingbird" from his album "Encore" (2004).
With a height of 3,500 m and a prominence of 2,041 m, the Daxue Shan is the most prominent peak of the Indo-Malayan System in Southeast Asia.
In September 1969, the first ShopKo store in Michigan opened, in Marquette.
In the early 1980s, Nyro began living with painter Maria Desiderio (1954-1999), a relationship that lasted 17 years, the rest of Nyro's life.
The Cape Government Railways places twenty-four 3rd Class 4-4-0 American type tender locomotives in passenger service on the Cape Western System, the first stock locomotives to be built in quantity to detailed designs prepared in the Cape Colony.
The recently discovered site at Xinglonggou is the only site of the culture to show evidence of any sort of agriculture, with evidence of millet remains.
Like most deep veins in legs, anterior tibial veins are accompanied by the homonym artery, the anterior tibial artery, along its course.
On March 5, 2010, a jury awarded seven neighboring farmers $11 million in damages from Premium Standard Farms over odors emanating from a hog farm of that processes 200,000 hogs near Berlin in Gentry County - the largest such award in history.
The Hall Peninsula of southern Baffin Island includes the Chidliak Kimberlite Province, which had been found to include kimberlite pipes of diamond-bearing kimberlite.
In 2008, the Tuskegee Airmen were inducted into the International Air & Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air & Space Museum.
In 2011, the long abandoned right-of-way of the New York, Brooklyn and Manhattan Beach Railway was subject to legal action by some homeowners living adjacent to its route in Sheepshead Bay, who wanted to acquire undisputed title to it.
On June 1, 2008, Telecorporación Salvadoreña create an alliance with DirecTV where in Channel 429 of Telecentro, DirecTV is the one in charge to transmit all the national programs of TCS in the United States and Canada.
A minority of scholars, pointing to differences in language between the announcements and Zhou bronzes, argue that all of these chapters are products of a commemorative tradition in the late Western Zhou or early Spring and Autumn periods.
In 1989, Goto returned to Japan after being proposed by the founder of the pioneering hardcore wrestling promotion Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling, Atsushi Onita.
The 15 watt compact fluorescent bulb (CFL) used also has the benefit of using a minimal amount of energy, as the lamp must remain on for a period of at least 25 hours.
In July 2021, Harmony, a cryptocurrency project that bridges between blockchains, and Oraichain, a cryptocurrency project involving artificial intelligence, announced that they had introduced VRFs.
Abbotsleigh is also unofficially associated as the sister school to The King's School, an independent Anglican day and boarding school for boys in North Parramatta, and Sydney Church of England Grammar School, an independent Anglican day and boarding school for boys in North Sydney.
The capital Altai is geographically located in Yesönbulag sum, and not to be confused with the Altai sum in the south of the aimag.
The Capricorn silvereye, a small bird endemic to the southern Great Barrier Reef, is found on the island.
Israel began construction of the barrier during the Second Intifada in September 2000, along and exceeding beyond the 1949 Green Line.
Politics of Lithuania takes place in a framework of a unitary semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Lithuania is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Lithuania is the head of government, and of a multi-party system.
Phil Lesh and Friends is an American rock band formed and led by Phil Lesh, former bassist of the Grateful Dead.
In the 2006 Recopa Sudamericana, Palacio scored two goals in the first leg and one in the second leg to help Boca beat São Paulo and win their third Recopa.
The plant yields cineol, α-phellandrene, alpha-terneol, ayapanin, ayapin, borneol, coumarin, sabinene, and umbelliferone, among many others.
The school was founded in 1884 as St John's High School for Boys by the Reverend Prebendary Frederick Hall MA of Jesus College, Cambridge, rector of the Parish of St James and St John, Friern Barnet, to educate boys from middle-class families capable of meeting fee payments, as distinct from his efforts to provide the free schooling - financially supported by parishioners - of infants.
The use of an orphan work, an in-copyright work whose owner cannot be found, on the internet, subject to approval from the Japanese Ministry of Culture.
In 2003, carbon monoxide and smoke inhalation from a fire at a historic bed-and-breakfast in Charlottesville, Virginia, where members of the firm were staying on a recruiting trip, killed Willkie recruiting coordinators Trish Langlade and Billie Kelly.
In the 1980s, the Philippine government began showing interest in a ferry service along and across the Pasig River when the Ministry of Transport and Communications (now the Department of Transportation) conducted feasibility studies for ferry passenger traffic in 1980, with another feasibility study being conducted in 1989.
In 1975, the Science Center of the Mazovian Center for Scientific Research was opened in the town.
In the census of 1921, Ladino was the mother language of 10,000 out of 70,000 inhabitants of Sarajevo.
After playing through the Sydney rugby club's 1984 European tour with a broken finger, Poidevin had surgery on his broken finger before returning to his first game for Randwick in 1984 on 19 May, playing against Sydney University in a match where he scored two tries.
The color Congo pink is displayed at right, a moderate yellow-toned shade of pink.
However, the operating system must be archived if the digital object is a full-fledged system with Input/Output interactions.
This series of demonstratives can be used with the future particle - (n) to if the noun will come into existence or will be used in the future.
Balanced polymorphism refers to the maintenance of different phenotypes in population.
A whitecoat is a newborn harp or grey seal with soft, white fur.
On November 1, 2013, State of Queensland the amended legislation commenced as the country's toughest anti-hooning laws.
In 1963, the State of South Dakota donated a marble statue of Ward to the United States Capitol's National Statuary Hall Collection.
The Atari 2700 is a version of the 2600 using wireless controllers.
# In order to save the planet, the capitalist model must be eradicated and the North pay its ecological debt, rather than the countries of the South and throughout the world continuing to pay their external debts.
Newton - North Delta was a federal electoral district in the province of British Columbia, Canada, that had been represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 2004 to 2015, when it was abolished and redistributed to the Delta and Surrey - Newton electoral districts.
There is a network of signed bike route to the west of Old Georgetown Road from Democracy Blvd to downtown Bethesda with multiple signed connections to Old Georgetown Road.
On August 28, 2014, the Oregon Symphony performed a memorial concert in Leyden's honor at Tom McCall Waterfront Park in Portland.
The Sri Sathya Sai Airport was opened on 24 November 1990 to provide emergency air service to the Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, as well as commercial service for visitors to Prasanthi Nilayam, Sathya Sai Baba's ashram located in the village.
In October 1978, the New Zealand Film Commission was formalised by Parliament under the Third National Government.
On 2 October 2016, at General Congregation 36 which he convened in Rome, Nicolás announced his intention to resign at age 80.
SkySails Group GmbH is a successor company to SkySails GmbH, which was founded in 2001 by Stephan Wrage and Thomas Meyer in Hamburg.
In 1952, he established a museum dedicated to his work, the Matisse Museum in Le Cateau, and this museum is now the third-largest collection of Matisse works in France.
The second column starting on the left shows the number of native speakers of each language, the third shows the number of speakers using it at home.
With approximately 1500 houses and flats and no representative of its own on Cardiff Council, in 2016 the Atlantic Wharf Residents" Association demanded that Atlantic Wharf be made into a separate electoral ward.
In 1952 he proved the principle of semi-detailed balance for kinetics without microscopic reversibility.
In 1986, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges accredited Mount Olive College as a four-year institution to award associate and baccalaureate degrees.
This was a relatively rare total penumbral lunar eclipse with the moon passing entirely within the penumbral shadow without entering the darker umbral shadow.
In 2003, Rolls-Royce was offering a scaled derivative of the Trent 900 for the proposed Boeing 7E7, which could incorporate ANTLE technologies.
On October 30, 2009, it was announced that Box2D was being integrated into the (now older) Torque 2D game engine.
In 1976, she put an end to her career as a model and moved to Italy, where she lived in Florence and Milan.
Note: some of the early Renaults seem to have oversquare cylinders and may be listed with bore and stroke transposed below.
The most important fresco represents the Virgin Mary with her son on her right arm, while the other hand is holding the Holy bible; above the group is a white dove, symbolizing the Holy Spirit.
Earl of Wharncliffe, in the West Riding of the County of York, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom.
The phycobiliproteins are made of two subunits (alpha and beta) having a protein backbone to which 1-2 linear tetrapyrrole chromophores are covalently bound.
There are many hiking trails with varying degrees of difficulty and 360 waterfalls in the Atlantic jungle.
If there is no change in the water loss despite fluid deprivation, desmopressin may be administered to distinguish between the two types of diabetes insipidus which are central & nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
The Chicano Movement of the 1960s, also called the Chicano civil rights movement, was a civil rights movement extending the Mexican-American civil rights movement of the 1960s with the stated goal of achieving Mexican American empowerment.
The pozzolanic reaction which occurs in the setting of the mixture of slaked lime and pozzolanic materials has also features similar to the alkali-silica reaction, mainly the formation of calcium silicate hydrate (C-S-H).
In October 1965, the choir sings at the International Choral Festival, commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Handel and Haydn Society in Symphony Hall, Boston.
Interleukins 1, 2, and 5 all rely on interleukin co-receptors to bind to the primary interleukin receptors.
The Holyport Real Tennis Club, formerly the Royal County of Berkshire Real Tennis Club, operates the real tennis court at Holyport, Berkshire, England.
The "Zhan Guo Ce" recounts the history of the Warring States from the conquest of the Fan clan by the Zhi clan in 490 BC up to the failed assassination of Qin Shi Huang by Gao Jianli in 221 BC.
There is a polynomial-time recognition algorithm for circulant graphs, and the isomorphism problem for circulant graphs can be solved in polynomial time.
On November 17, 2017, Altman won his 600th career Division I game in a 114-56 Ducks win over Alabama State.
In 1981, Wade graduated Warsaw Community High School (Warsaw, IN), and received a bachelor's degree in kinesiology from Cal State Fullerton in 1991.
In condensation polymers (see examples below), the repeat unit contains fewer atoms than the monomer or monomers from which it is formed.
In cells, two broad classes of reactions of nitric oxide involve the S-nitrosation of thiols and the nitrosylation of some metalloenzymes.
American University of Sharjah Model United Nations, or AUSMUN, is an annual high school and university conference organized by the International Studies department at the American University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates.
Port Edward is a tourist resort for seasonal visitors from more affluent regions of South Africa.
In 1978, Tweed was the third runner-up in the Miss Ottawa event and won the Miss Canada talent competition for her singing.
The logit function is the reciprocal function to the sigmoid logistic function.
In South Africa the South African Reserve Bank determines the repurchase rate (repo rate) for short-term loans it grants private banks through its Monetary Policy Committee.
C and D category cities are allowed to network and share programming, but generally, channels prefer to do in-house programming.
Sears Canada launched an iPad app for the 2013 Christmas Wish Book which was at the time ranked as the number one free iPad app in Canada in the Catalogue category.
To increase the number of participants, the Riga Marathon was moved to the spring, attracting school youth to the 5 km distance, however, there were still relatively few runners in the marathon distance and the results could not surpass the performance of the first year.
Venezuelan colonial architecture is built from the 16th century, when Venezuela began to be a dependent colony of the Spanish Empire, until 1810, when the process of Venezuelan independence began.
Thus, the vectors v"λ"=1 and v"λ"=3 are eigenvectors of "A" associated with the eigenvalues and, respectively.
The angelic figures at the beginning of the 1946 holiday film "It's a Wonderful Life" are based on images of Stephan's Quintet.
Nitric acid in rainwater is an important source of fixed nitrogen for plant life, and is also produced by electrical activity in the atmosphere such as lightning.
In 2014 the NIST Cybersecurity Framework was published, and quickly became a popular set of guidelines, despite the significant costs of full compliance.
The center combines traditional techniques and technological restoration concepts, with a focus on the restoration of monuments and decorations to preserve historical relics and represent the beauty of heritage.
In addition, the obliques are altered from the original, where optical corrections are no longer used.
When computing several derivatives in the N-jet simultaneously, discrete scale-space smoothing with the discrete analogue of the Gaussian kernel, or with a recursive filter approximation, followed by small support difference operators, may be both faster and more accurate than computing recursive approximations of each derivative operator.
The following represents MIC susceptibility data for a few medically significant microorganisms.
In addition to anesthesia, analgesia is often managed by anesthesiologists or is included in the considerations for anesthesia.
HVAC makes extensive use of tortuosity in evaporator and condenser coils for heat exchangers, whereas Ultra-high vacuum makes use of the inverse of tortuosity, which is conductivity, with short, straight, voluminous paths.
Psoralen intercalates into the DNA double helix where it is ideally positioned to form one or more adducts with adjacent pyrimidine bases, preferentially thymine, upon excitation by an ultraviolet photon.
In 1935, 16 mm Kodachrome film projectors added the first fully animated visual reinforcement to live events.
In 1957 Karatsuba proved two theorems which completely solved the Moore problem on improving the estimate of the length of experiment in his Theorem 8.
In Alaska, a similar system is used in the Alaskan Meteor Burst Communications System (AMBCS), collecting data for the National Weather Service from automated weather stations, as well as occasional data from other US government agencies.
Data Discovery and Query Builder (DDQB) is a data abstraction technology, developed by IBM, that allows users to retrieve information from a data warehouse, in terms of the user's specific area of expertise instead of SQL.
The consonant system is reconstructed with a four-way phonation contrast in stops and affricates, and a two-way contrast in fricatives.
In 2005, Japanese archaeologists explore tunnels on Iwo Jima, where they find something in the dirt.
Siayan has an elevation of and is listed as an inactive volcano by the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology.
Bermersheim is one of the places in Rhenish Hesse where mammalian remains from some ten million years ago have been found, in the prehistoric Rhine's Deinotherium Sands, whose name comes from this extinct proboscid's teeth and bone remnants, which are often yielded up by these deposits.
In February, 2009, Allen was named to the Talkers Magazine's 100 heavy hitters in talk radio, receiving an unprecedented ranking for a newcomer in the industry.
In May 2012, President Obama posthumously awarded Gordon Hirabayashi the Presidential Medal of Freedom, America's highest civilian honor.
* 17 November 2002, Natural Uranium Oxide Fuel Plant at the Nuclear Fuel Complex in Hyderabad, India: A chemical explosion at a fuel fabrication facility.
As part of the upgrade of the section of the old Wellington and Manawatu Railway between Wellington and Johnsonville, two new stations were constructed, Simla Crescent and Awarua Street.
Bud died in Stockholm on June 10, 2019, after a period of illness.
In 1977, most congregations of the Congregational Union of Australia merged with all Churches of the Methodist Church of Australasia and a majority of Churches of the Presbyterian Church of Australia to form the Uniting Church in Australia.
Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial and MADIT II are implantable cardioverter defibrillator (or ICD) trials which investigate whether prophylactic ICD therapy in moderately high-risk coronary patients (in addition to conventional therapy) would significantly reduce death compared with patients treated with conventional therapy alone.
On August 1, 1904, the Toronto and Mimico Railway Company was merged into the Toronto and York Radial Railway becoming its Mimico Division, thus ending the Toronto Railway Company's involvement in suburban services.
The thematic park includes miniature replicas that represent the monuments and other elements from the cultural heritage and patrimony in Portugal and world, divided into three thematic areas.
In 1945, the Hungarian cultural centre "Petőfi Sándor" was established in Telep, which preserves the local culture of Hungarians in the city.
According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Clarion has a hot-summer humid continental climate, abbreviated "Dfa" on climate maps.
Circa 1975, the suburb was populated by middle class, young families seeking stability.
To calculate the coefficient of each term MARS applies a linear regression over the terms.
The distillery of the famous local liqueur Izarra is located on the northern bank of the Adour and is open to visitors.
Born in Los Angeles, California, Stearns received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Stanford University in 1968, a Master of Letters degree (Political Philosophy) from Balliol College, Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, in 1971, and a Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School in 1976.
When the MTA reintroduced year-round ferry service to Hull in 1963 (now MBTA boat), it was the only commuter boat service in the United States.
Similarly, the intrinsic inefficiency of the sample covariance matrix depends upon the Riemannian curvature of the space of positive-definite matrices.
In contrast, particle density is an intrinsic property of the solid and does not include the volume for voids between particles.
The wildlife of Seychelles comprises the flora and fauna of the Seychelles islands off the eastern coast of Africa in the western Indian Ocean.
Pinson is the site of the Pinson Mounds, the largest Middle Woodland period Indian mound group in the United States, and the Pinson Mounds State Archaeological Park dedicated to their study.
This eucalypt grows in mallee shrubland in sandy-loam soils over laterite on sand plains, sand dunes and road verges from areas in the Mid West, extending through the Wheatbelt and into the Great Southern and Goldfields-Esperance regions of Western Australia.
According to the goals of the Bahrain Centre for Studies and Research, the Centre undertakes strategic and scientific research, including surveys, observational studies, and experiments for local or external organizations, which are funded either by the Centre or from outside organizations on a contractual basis.
Tropical cyclone bulletins are issued by PAGASA every three hours for all tropical cyclones within this area that are currently affecting the country, six hours when cyclones are anticipated to make landfall within the Philippines, or twelve hours when cyclones are not affecting land.
In 2010, the mayor of Washington Park, John Thornton, was found to have been fatally shot; he was discovered in his car injured on the morning of April 1, and died at a hospital at 6 AM.
In 1985 a postage stamp honouring Gibbs, or her best known creations, was issued by Australia Post as part of a set of five commemorating children's books.
The Nokia E75 is a smartphone from the Eseries range with a side sliding QWERTY keyboard and also front keypad.
According to a definition by Robert Koch Institute Germany and further institutions, virucide means effective against enveloped and non-enveloped viruses.
In March 2007, Futuremark launched a website specialising in news and reviews of PC games, called YouGamers.
Today, Castelli hosts an art institute and ceramics museum as well as many ceramics shops and studios.
Fluoridation has little effect on risk of bone fracture (broken bones); it may result in slightly lower fracture risk than either excessively high levels of fluoridation or no fluoridation.
Retro style is an outdated style or fashion that has become fashionable again.
The lymphatic system consists of a conducting network of lymphatic vessels, lymphoid organs, lymphoid tissues, and the circulating lymph.
On July 29, 2006, O'Neil spoke at the induction ceremony for the Negro league players at the Baseball Hall of Fame.
The Canadian Professional Counsellors Association (CPCA) is a national association and offers memberships to counsellors.
The king recounts the tale of king Sindbad who accidentally killed his own falcon that was attempting to save him from being poisoned by vipers while the vizier recounts the story of a vizier who carelessly goaded a prince into almost getting eaten by a ghula during a hunting trip.
In the rural environment some farms can be found in the traditional building style of the timber framed Low German house.
The covalent radius of fluorine is a measure of the size of a fluorine atom; it is approximated at about 60 picometres.
In 2008, Kuala Lumpur International Airport was the 27th busiest airport by cargo traffic, based on Airports Council International statistics.
The World Wrestling Council did not held the WWC Aniversario in 2017 due to the wake of Hurricane María thru Puerto Rico.
By 2014, the operator had accumulated more than 25,000 hours of operating data from the solar power plant.
Craig Phillips (born in Australia, 1974) is a New Zealand-based author/illustrator and publisher at Wildling Books, New Zealand.
When a ray of light hits the boundary between two transparent materials, it is divided into a reflected and a refracted ray.
Before and after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, she played an active role in shaping and implementing the European Citizen's Initiative.
Although in many cases, either a reflexive or a reciprocal pronoun could appear in the same structural position, in some cases, the asymmetry occurs when a reciprocal may be bound to its antecedent, but a reflexive may not.
"Villamontes" is the administrative center of Villamontes Municipio and situated at 388 m above sea level, on the left bank of Río Pilcomayo where the river crosses the Sierra del Aguarague mountain range and flows southeast into the Chaco-Foreland.
A cluster of short and a voiceless consonant (preaspirated) in the strong grade alternates with a single voiced consonant in the weak grade.
In 2007, the Armenian National Institute for Standardization, Measurements and Metrology made an amendment to the Character Sets and Keyboards table and enacted to replace the collocation "dram sign" by the graphics of the symbol.
Transportation between the islands, by cargo-passengers boats, jetfoils, and aircraft, is supported by harbours on all inhabited islands and five airports (small islands can be reached by helicopter).
Vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 28 homolog is a protein that in humans is encoded by the VPS28 gene.
In combinatorial mathematics, the exponential formula (called the polymer expansion in physics) states that the exponential generating function for structures on finite sets is the exponential of the exponential generating function for connected structures.
The Daggs Falls is a plunge waterfall on Spring Creek that is located in the Darling Downs region of Queensland, Australia.
The Great Victoria Desert is a sparsely populated desert ecoregion and interim Australian bioregion in Western Australia and South Australia.
In July 2006, the newly opened Main Library of the Warsaw Agricultural University was named after Grabski, and in front of the library, the statue of Grabski was placed.
On June 22, 2013, Adriana Nelson won the USA Half Marathon Championships hosted by the Grandma's Marathon in Duluth, Minnesota, in 1:11:19.
The convective derivative takes into account changes due to time dependence and motion through space along a vector field, and is a special case of the total derivative.
In 1859, under the terms of the Queen's Proclamation issued by Queen Victoria, the Bengal Presidency, along with the rest of British India, came under the direct rule of the British Crown.
The primitive recursive functions are the basic functions and those obtained from the basic functions by applying these operations a finite number of times.
The airline launched its first flight from Shanghai to Amsterdam on 1 June 2006 with an initial frequency of six flights per week, becoming the first local-foreign partnership airline to take flight in China.
In April 2010, Elemental introduced its enterprise product, Elemental Live, a video processing system that provides video and audio encoding for live streaming to media platforms.
In that same year, it was announced that the master rights to the toys for the Care Bears had changed hands from Play Along Toys to Hasbro.
Art of Bosnia and Herzegovina refers to artistic objects created by the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina from prehistory to present times.
Get Fresh is a children's television programme that originally aired from 1986 to 1988 in the United Kingdom.
In 2011, the Nerf Super Soaker Shot Blast was awarded "Outdoor Toy of the Year" at the 11th Annual Toy of the Year Awards, which is held at the American International Toy Fair in New York City.
The hotel will open in the summer of 2023 as the'Municipal Hotel Liverpool MGallery' by Accor, the French multinational hotel chain.
In 1967 the company Anton Paar GmbH presented the first digital density meter for liquids and gases employing the oscillating U-tube principle at.
On July 18, 2019, Bishop Chandler Jones was elected Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of the Eastern United States at the 51st annual synod, held in Orlando, Florida.
In July 2017, NCIX closed all their Ontario retail outlets in Ottawa, Mississauga, and Toronto and shortly after its Markham headquarters office.
Depending on the network architecture of the service provider, there are two main types of video server architecture that can be considered for IPTV deployment: centralised and distributed.
Displacement ventilation (DV) It is a room air distribution strategy where conditioned outdoor air is supplied at a low velocity from air supply diffusers located near floor level and extracted above the occupied zone, usually at ceiling height.
Biscoe Point is a rocky point forming the south-eastern side of Biscoe Bay, immediately north of Access Point on the south side of Anvers Island, in the Palmer Archipelago of Antarctica.
In November 2009, he competed in Formula Ford for the first time in over 40 years driving an Elden MK8 in the Walter Hayes Trophy at Silverstone.
Prior to the addition of other reagents, mercuric sulfate can be added to the sample to eliminate chloride interference.
In 2017, the Senate of Poland adopted a resolution commemorating the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the Polish-Armenian community and expressed gratitude for its contribution to Polish culture and history.
There are regular free art exhibitions in the ground floor Amphi corridor, which can be viewed when attending events or on dedicated viewing dates.
In 2016, BayernLB entered into a partnership with Standard Chartered through which the latter will help finance Asian operations for German export-oriented small and medium-sized businesses.
In February 2014 a draft law was endorsed by the European Parliament stating that all websites managed by public sector bodies have to be made accessible to everyone.
Surface embroidery is any form of embroidery in which the pattern is worked by the use of decorative stitches and laid threads "on top of" the foundation fabric or canvas rather than "through" the fabric; it is contrasted with canvas work.
On 26 July 1962, just a few days after his dismissal, he died of a heart attack on the stairs of his home in Madrid.
In 2013, he hosted "EconomicalECO," a how-to series that popularized ways to radically reduce the cost of living by choosing economical American products.
On 16 June 2014, Lahm started for Germany in central midfield in their first match of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, a 4-0 defeat of Portugal in Salvador, and remained in the position for the other two group games and the round of 16 match against Algeria.
After the breakup of the Soviet Union, these institutes, basically responsible for research in fisheries science, were coordinated by VNIRO, the central fishery institute in Moscow.
No credit repair organization may charge or receive any money or other valuable consideration for the performance of any service which the credit repair organization has agreed to perform for any consumer before such service is fully performed.
In terms of the natural topology on the fundamental group, a locally path-connected space is semi-locally simply connected if and only if its quasitopological fundamental group is discrete.
In November 2010, Sheen was cast as Uncle Ben in Sony's 2012 reboot of the "Spider-Man" film series, "The Amazing Spider-Man," directed by Marc Webb.
In clinical trials of the neoadjuvant use of the combination, more than 50% of people had hair loss and loss of neutrophils.
There are approximately 79 ferries between Mallorca and other destinations every week, most of them to mainland Spain.
The Svea Court of Appeal was founded in 1614 and was the highest court in Sweden until 1789, when the Supreme Court of Sweden was established.
Ships longer than 70 metres or transporting dangerous goods must receive the help of a pilot from the pilot station of Le Havre.
Matta is currently being held at the United States Penitentiary, Canaan, a high-security federal prison in Pennsylvania.
During the Civil War enlisted in the Seventeenth Regiment, Illinois Infantry, in 1861 and obtained the commission of captain.
She was nominated in 2007 and 2008 for a NAACP Image Award for NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Performance in a Youth/Children's Series or Special.
The museum is about halfway between the major tourist centers of Bern and Interlaken, and housed in the manor house of the historic Wichterheer estate, on the shore of Lake Thun.
In the last three decades of the twentieth century, techniques of offset printing and digital image processing became more widely used, but these new methods and media led to a great deal of innovation in poster design with new modes of expression.
Housing cooperatives are a popular form of housing in Germany, particularly in urban areas, and they are often seen as a way to provide affordable, community-oriented housing options.
In 2019, actress Tan Zhuo became the first-ever Chinese brand ambassador of Baccarat.
In August 1957, the main part of the college was moved to Suzhou, while the rest part retained in Nantong was designated as Nantong Branch, Suzhou Medical College, namely Medical School, Nantong University nowadays.
The Mold cape is the only other piece of Bronze Age goldwork that challenges bronze age Wessex gold material in its richness; however, the decorative motifs employed in the cape are dissimilar to those found in Wessex artefacts.
Two chemists generally expressed the composition of a mixture in terms of numerical values relating the amount of the product to describe the equilibrium state.
Charge number or valence of an ion is the coefficient that, when multiplied by the elementary charge, gives the ion's charge.
Wonnacott's ambition was to follow in the footsteps of his father, Major Raymond Wonnacott, an auctioneer in South West England.
In July 2012, a US Senate committee issued a report which stated that HSBC had been in breach of money-laundering rules, and had assisted Iran and North Korea to circumvent US nuclear-weapons sanctions.
The psychological model suggests that autophagia occurs as an attempt to reduce tension as an outlet for emotional regulation.
The Constitution provided for the pre-independence Federal Legislative Council to continue to sit as the legislative body of the new country until 1959, when the first post-independence general election were held and the first Parliament of Malaya were elected.
The islands are part of the French portion,, of the international Bouches de Bonifacio ("Strait of Bonifacio") marine park, a nature reserve, signed into legal existence by France and Italy in 1993 for the protection of the strait against passage of ships bearing dangerous chemicals, and implemented in France by a ministerial decree of 1999 detailing the land to be included in the réserve naturelle de Bouches de Bonifacio for the preservation of wild birds, other fauna and flora, fish and nature in general.
Rotterdam has a reputation for being a platform for architectural development and education through the Berlage Institute, a postgraduate laboratory of architecture, and the NAi (Netherlands Architecture Institute), which is open to the public and has a variety of exhibitions on architecture and urban planning issues.
The average range, therefore, is about three-and-a-half octaves, with the exact range depending on the number of frets on the individual instrument: from two octaves below middle C up to D#5/Eb5, in the octave above middle C, (with 18 frets), to as high as A5, with 24 frets.
On 9 October 2008, Greek Minister of Finance George Alogoskoufis announced that 100 million euro will be donated for the construction the main highway that will connect Serbia and Greece to the rest of Europe, the Corridor X.
According to Volvo's traffic accident research team, the WHIPS equipped seat resulted in a 33% reduction in short term injury and a 54% reduction in long term whiplash injuries caused by car accidents.
In the context of support-vector machines, the "optimally separating hyperplane" or "maximum-margin hyperplane" is a hyperplane which separates two convex hulls of points and is equidistant from the two.
Powell also believed that there was no significant prejudice to the state in notifying the prisoner in advance about the evidence to be used at the hearing, so as to allow the prisoner to prepare his statement.
There was a temple of Yahweh in Egypt at that time, the 6th-7th centuries BC, that was central to the Jewish community at Elephantine in which Yahweh was worshipped in conjunction with the goddess Anath (also named in the temple papyri as Anath-Bethel and Anath-Iahu).
The National Healthcareer Association (NHA), the largest Allied Health Certification Agency in the US and the National Lutheran Health and Medical Board (NLHMB), Chennai, India, which is a leading NGO and sponsor of Two Universities have come together to offer the US employment National Healthcareer Association Certificate Examination in India.
On December 1, 2003, "Queen of Blood" was featured at the Sitges Film Festival in Spain.
In September 2017, Nokia and Telefónica signed an agreement in order to evaluate technologies enabling an efficient network evolution to 5G in line with Telefónica's business objectives.
In [thermodynamics], work output can refer to the thermodynamic work done by a heat engine, in which case the amount of work output must be less than the input as energy is lost to heat, as determined by the engine's efficiency.
The camera has a B (bulb) option that allowed for keeping the exposure open indefinitely, for use in a dark environment or indoors.
The Chinese High School Clock Tower Building, a gazetted national monument in Singapore, is situated in the campus of the integrated Hwa Chong Institution, which incorporates The Chinese High School and Hwa Chong Junior College.
An Internet Routing Registry (IRR) is a database of Internet route objects for determining, and sharing route and related information used for configuring routers, with a view to avoiding problematic issues between Internet service providers.
According to Mozambican media reports, the Mozambican government seized and impounded the 16-vehicle shipment pending the outcome of investigations into alleged tax evasion and deception by OTT Technologies Mozambique.