And he says, "We're witnessing what amounts to no less than a mass exodus to virtual worlds and online game environments." And he's an economist, so he's rational. And he says —
And the source was a man, an African-American man, charming, rugged, homeless, playing a violin that only had two strings.
And I'm telling a story that many of you know, because Steve's columns became the basis for a book, which was turned into a movie, with Robert Downey Jr. acting as Steve Lopez, and Jamie Foxx as Nathaniel Anthony Ayers, the Juilliard-trained double bassist whose promising career was cut short by a tragic affliction with paranoid schizophrenia.
Nathaniel dropped out of Juilliard, he suffered a complete breakdown, and 30 years later he was living homeless on the streets of Skid Row in downtown Los Angeles.
I mean, I'm a journalist. We type, we file, we go to dinner. It's fine.
That guy in the middle, not so much.
And they're not just going to die of measles. What about polio? Let's have that. Why not? A college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said she thought I was a little strident.
Back in New York, I am the head of development for a non-profit called Robin Hood.
When I'm not fighting poverty, I'm fighting fires as the assistant captain of a volunteer fire company.
I was the second volunteer on the scene, so there was a pretty good chance I was going to get in.
When I found the captain, he was having a very engaging conversation with the homeowner, who was surely having one of the worst days of her life.
When I found the captain, he was having a very engaging conversation with the homeowner, who was surely having one of the worst days of her life.
The other volunteer who had arrived just before me — let's call him Lex Luther — got to the captain first and was asked to go inside and save the homeowner's dog. The dog! I was stunned with jealousy.
Here was some lawyer or money manager who, for the rest of his life, gets to tell people that he went into a burning building to save a living creature, just because he beat me by five seconds.
Well, I was next.
In both my vocation at Robin Hood and my avocation as a volunteer firefighter, I am witness to acts of generosity and kindness on a monumental scale, but I'm also witness to acts of grace and courage on an individual basis.
Not long afterwards, a doctor strode into my hospital room, and he said, "Amanda, you'll never walk again." And that was 19 yeas ago.
We want you to tell a story, but we just want to tell our story. "See, when I was a kid and my father would catch me in some sort of a lie — and there he is giving me the look he often gave me — he would say," Son, there's three sides to every story.
But with only one company, one agency willing to help me — and that's only because I knew John Bond and Richard Kirshenbaum for years — I realized that I would have to go on my own, I'd have to cut out the middleman and go to the companies myself with all of my team.
But the coolest I ever worked on was around this guy.
I committed to his brother and his father right then and there — I'm like, "All right, here's the deal: Tony's going to speak, we're going to get him a machine, and we're going to figure out a way for him to do his art again.
So I went home and was having dinner with my wife and was telling her about this, and we were like, "Well wait a second. If we know that this technology exists where you can use your eyes to control things, why don't we figure out a way for TEMPT to control a laser and he could do graf again? Well that would be awesome."
And he's seriously one of the funniest — I call him Yoda, because you talk to the guy, you get an email from him, and you're like, "I'm not worthy. This guy's so amazing."
My wife and kids and I moved to our back garage, and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists took over our house.
I'm not a programmer, never done anything with ocular recognition technology, but I just recognized something and associated myself with amazing people so that we could make something happen.
That makes me feel very good as a doctor.
Now when I was a freshman in college, I took my first biology class.
And since you don't know me as the woman walking around TED in her underwear — that means I found a few things.
I grew up with a mom who taught me this day-in and day-out.
The other hat that I've worn in my work is as an activist, as a patient advocate — or, as I sometimes say, as an impatient advocate — for people who are patients of doctors.
Most females like me — I believe myself to be a typical female — I don't actually know my chromosomal make-up, but I think I'm probably typical — most females like me are actually androgen-sensitive.
The consequence is that somebody like me has actually had a brain exposed to more androgens than the woman born with testes who has androgen insensitivity syndrome.
Another example: a few years ago I got a call from a man who was 19 years old, who was born a boy, raised a boy, had a girlfriend, had sex with his girlfriend, had a life as a guy, and had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus inside.
Another example: a few years ago I got a call from a man who was 19 years old, who was born a boy, raised a boy, had a girlfriend, had sex with his girlfriend, had a life as a guy, and had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus inside.
And he was born looking like a boy — nobody suspected anything.
So we have the concept that what it means to be a woman is to have a female identity; what it means to be a black person is, allegedly, to have an African anatomy in terms of your history.
They had the idea that the people who would be in political power should be in political power because of the blood being passed down from grandfather to father to son and so forth.
Henry can marry, in every state, a woman, but Mary can only marry today in a few states, a woman.
So for example, Texas has at one point decided that what it means to marry a man is to mean that you don't have a Y chromosome, and what it means to marry a woman means you have a Y chromosome.
I'm glad to say we don't have the kind of situation with — a surgeon I talked to a few years ago who had brought over a set of conjoined twins in order to separate them, partly to make a name for himself.
And I want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like, or might have looked like, if we had more involved the mothers.
And I want to say something a little bit radical for a feminist, and that is that I think that there may be different kinds of insights that can come from different kinds of anatomies, particularly when we have people thinking in groups.
Years ago, when I was in graduate school, one of my graduate advisors who knew I was interested in feminism — I considered myself a feminist, as I still do, asked a really strange question.
And I always tell people that I don't want to show up looking like a scientist.
You can have me as a farmer, or in leathers, and no one has ever chose farmer.
Could you please come to Ohio, and please bring that man that I know you have found by now.
And just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult got to know me, she turned into a box of ashes and was placed in my hands.
And I asked last week, in a meeting with Dutch government representatives, I asked one of the leaders of the team whether he found plausible that people died because of the DigiNotar hack.
So I one day decided to pay a visit to the manager, and I asked the manager, "Is this model of offering people all this choice really working?" And he pointed to the busloads of tourists that would show up everyday, with cameras ready usually.
And I think it starts with one physician, and that's me.
I was an obsessive compulsive student.
I didn't pick up the phone and do what I was supposed to do, which was call my attending and run the story by him so he would have a chance to see her for himself.
Maybe I didn't want to be a high-maintenance resident.
And at about the nine day mark, they let her go — Mrs. Drucker, a wife, a mother and a grandmother.
And it wasn't because of my attending; he was a doll.
Two years later I was an attending in the emergency department at a community hospital just north of Toronto, and I saw a 25 year-old man with a sore throat.
And two days later I came to do my next emergency shift, and that's when my chief asked to speak to me quietly in her office.
And she said the three words: Do you remember? "Do you remember that patient you saw with the sore throat?" Well it turns out, he didn't have a strep throat.
I hear this guy, his voice behind me say, "Well, if it isn't Aimee Mullins." And I turn around, and it's this older man.
This man was Dr. Kean, a man that I had only known about through my mother's stories of that day, because, of course, typical fashion, I arrived late for my birthday by two weeks.
This man was Dr. Kean, a man that I had only known about through my mother's stories of that day, because, of course, typical fashion, I arrived late for my birthday by two weeks.
And so my mother's prenatal physician had gone on vacation, so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents.
When I was a little girl, my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch.
How can I speak in 10 minutes about the bonds of women over three generations, about how the astonishing strength of those bonds took hold in the life of a four-year-old girl huddled with her young sister, her mother and her grandmother for five days and nights in a small boat in the China Sea more than 30 years ago.
Imagine the first piece: a man burning his life's work.
He is a poet, a playwright, a man whose whole life had been balanced on the single hope of his country's unity and freedom.
My grandmother never let me forget his life.
My mother, Mai, was 18 when her father died — already in an arranged marriage, already with two small girls.
If we were captured, first my sister and I, then she and my grandmother would drink.
My mother, my sister and I slept in the same bed.
My mother was exhausted each night, but we told one another about our day and listened to the movements of my grandmother around the house.
And for that work, when I was a final-year law student, I was chosen as the Young Australian of the Year.
I told my mother I couldn't do it.
Before I close, though, let me tell you about my grandmother.
At 17, she became the second wife of a mandarin whose mother beat her.
At 17, she became the second wife of a mandarin whose mother beat her.
With no support from her husband, she caused a sensation by taking him to court and prosecuting her own case, and a far greater sensation when she won. "It can't be done" was shown to be wrong.
My mother phoned minutes later.
My mother asked us to feel her hand.
She asked the monk, "Why is it that her hand is so warm and the rest of her is so cold?" "Because you have been holding it since this morning," he said. "You have not let it go."
When a friend of mine told me that I needed to see this great video about a guy protesting bicycle fines in New York City, I admit I wasn't very interested.
And when these individuals went and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world, it wasn't an MIT professor, it wasn't a CalTech student, it was a person from England, from Manchester, a woman who, during the day, was an executive assistant at a rehab clinic and, at night, was the world's best protein folder.
I grew up in a house that was the traditional African-American home that was dominated by a matriarch, and that matriarch was my grandmother.
She was tough, she was strong, she was powerful.
She was the daughter of people who were actually enslaved.
And my grandmother was tough, but she was also loving.
When I would see her as a little boy, she'd come up to me and she'd give me these hugs.
My mom was the youngest of her 10 kids.
And my grandmother was sitting across the room staring at me.
I grew up in the country in the rural South, and I have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger.
I grew up in the country in the rural South, and I have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger.
When I was about 14 or 15, one day my brother came home and he had this six-pack of beer — I don't know where he got it — and he grabbed me and my sister and we went out in the woods.
And we were kind of just out there doing the stuff we crazily did.
And he had a sip of this beer and he gave some to my sister and she had some, and they offered it to me.
Y'all go ahead. "And then my brother started staring at me.
When I thought about my grandmother, of course she would think all her grandkids were special.
And the judge has certified him as an adult, but I see this kid.
And I had a client who was 14 years old, a young, poor black kid.
And as I was walking up the steps of this courthouse, there was an older black man who was the janitor in this courthouse.
And as soon as I walked inside, the judge saw me coming in. He said, "Mr. Stevenson, did you write this crazy motion?" I said, "Yes, sir. I did." And we started arguing.
And finally, this older black man with this very worried look on his face came into the courtroom and sat down behind me, almost at counsel table.
And this deputy jumped up and he ran over to this older black man.
He said, "Jimmy, what are you doing in this courtroom?" And this older black man stood up and he looked at that deputy and he looked at me and he said, "I came into this courtroom to tell this young man, keep your eyes on the prize, hold on."
But one fellow in particular, a guy named Erik Michaels-Ober, noticed something else, and that's that citizens are shoveling out sidewalks right in front of these things.
So he did what any good developer would do, he wrote an app.
Well, as a reporter, if I hang a microphone on someone, that is consent.
Do we have women as victims, and are men only the perpetrators?
I will continue to work as a researcher and a reporter in developing countries, but I do it with an altered ethic of seeing.
I'm a researcher at the MIT Media Lab, part of the Opera of the Future group, and my research focuses on the relationship people have with their own voice and with the voices of others.
But maybe the reason that my Twitter critic wasn't happy with that idea is because he doesn't agree with my definition of justice. Fair enough. Maybe he and I don't see eye to eye, politically.
As a scientist, I have access to high-tech equipment that we can put over the side of the research vessel, and it measures oxygen and many more things.
What that means is if you met somebody, and you were told, "Oh his father is six feet tall," how much would you know about his height?
I'm a scientist. I don't know if you could tell that.
But I truly believe that, as a scientist, using mostly federal funds to do the research, I owe it to the public, to agency heads and congressional people to share my knowledge with them so they can use it, hopefully to make better decisions about our environmental policy.
He cofounded a company called Deaftronics, which now manufactures the Solar Ear, which is a hearing aid powered by his invention.
Having completed the course, the student fed back to us that he now realized that it was he who hadn't understood what the client wanted.
Another student gave us feedback that she had learned to design with empathy, as opposed to designing for functionality, which is what her engineering education had taught her.
Pakistan is also the birthplace of the youngest Nobel Peace Prize winner, Malala Yousafzai.
Another aspect is where the twisted concept of honor is linked to women and their bodies; where men are allowed to disrespect women and even kill them sometimes in the name of so-called "family honor"; where women are left to die right outside their houses for speaking to a man on a mobile phone, in the name of "family honor." Let me say this very clearly: it's not honor; it's a cold-blooded murder.
However, unlike the other male guardians of my family, my father was one who really supported my ambitions.
When I resisted this idea of being surveilled by my ex-husband, he really didn't approve of this and threw me out of his house, along with my six-month-old son, Abdullah.
My father told me he was not happy about me writing a book that risked deportation and unemployment.
He had been diabetic for many years when I still worked in Dubai, and my salary was always sufficient to pay for his treatments.
I called my mother. "I'm OK." I called my husband. "I'm OK." Then my daughter called, my voice cracked, and I knew I had to pull myself together.
And as a history teacher, I knew I needed to start with the Second Amendment and the NRA.
So Amos was an example of a male who was liked as a leader, and I think the term alpha male, if you look it up on the internet, you will find all these business books that tell you how to be an alpha male, and what they mean is how to beat up others and beat them over the head and let them know that you are boss and don't mess with me and so on.
Just as an example, the three males that I used to work with most at the Dutch zoo long ago, where I worked, and the middle male here is a 17-year-old alpha male.
The male whom he is grooming on the side is twice as old, and this old male has made him the leader.
So you can imagine that that old male has an enormous amount of power, because he has made the alpha male alpha male.
You don't need to be the biggest and strongest male.
The smallest male, if he has the right friends and keeps them happy, or he has female support, he can be the alpha male.
But she of course didn't need to send the message that she could hold a baby without dropping it, which was what the man was doing.
If you don't do that, that old male is going to get mad at you, and you're going to lose him as a partner.
The one in the back puts her arms around her and consoles her.
But I do want to emphasize that the alpha in a group doesn't need to be a male, and that actually in one of our close relatives, it is a female.
When spring arrived, I ran so fast through the house, speeding ahead of my mother's voice.
When spring arrived, I ran so fast through the house, speeding ahead of my mother's voice.
I pulled on my red corduroy jumper and my grey plaid wool hat before my mother could get her jacket on.
My mother cooked with the colors and textures of her garden.
I'm a woman of super strong opinions, with really deep convictions, direct speech.
I'm not an engineer. I did not study engineering in school.
But I was a super ambitious student growing up.
Here's an email I sent to my brother around that time. "You won't understand how difficult it is for me to tell you, to confess this.
So as an inventor, I'm interested in things that people struggle with.
Nearly every apartment in and around my grandmother's place now has an air conditioner.
So, I decided I was going to become a scuba diver at the age of 15.
I have a grown daughter who's brilliant and happy and wonderful.
I pestered my father until he finally found a scuba class in Buffalo, New York, right across the border from where we live.
I have this — not a scientist myself — but an uncanny ability to understand everything about science, except the actual science —
The best we can be is like the old woman in that joke — I don't know if you've heard it.
And the daughter doesn't want to say anything that makes it sound like, "You're too old to drive," so she didn't say anything.
But when I chose a career as an adult, it was filmmaking.
A dictator may not be able to provide me with good health care, but he will be able to make me love him and to make me hate the opposition.
Jim Ewing: The morning after the first time I was attached to the robot, my daughter came downstairs and asked me how it felt to be a cyborg, and my answer was that I didn't feel like a cyborg.
In reality, Galina's husband was an active pro-Russia militant in Donbass.
After the success of "Titanic," I said, "OK, I'm going to park my day job as a Hollywood movie maker, and I'm going to go be a full-time explorer for a while." And so, we started planning these expeditions.
Andy was a superb leader and also a teacher, and he said to me, "John, it almost doesn't matter what you know.
So here's a classic video from the 1970s of professor Andy Grove.
I quickly held out my hands and said to his shaking mother in Arabic,
This is why my wife and I and friends co-founded "Humanity Crew." One of the few aid organizations in the world that specializes in providing psychosocial aid and first-response mental health interventions to refugees and displaced populations.
She kissed her daughter goodbye, left her home, never to return.
He did not want to be a farmer.
He borrowed a very old motorcycle, with tires that were more patches than tires, to become a motorcycle taxi driver.
Fast-forward three years, Saminu has earned enough money to buy three goats for his mother to start a goat-rearing business, owns his own retail store and bought not one, but two motorcycles, with vanity license plates: "Babban Gona."
So as a designer, it's absolutely key to have a good understanding of the visual and cultural vocabulary of your audience.
Fortunately, my daughter was born at 11: 30 —
My father had passed away, and I never had a chance to tell him I loved him.
My mother had dementia and no longer recognized me, and my children had grown up.
I moved closer to my mother, my wife usually travels with me, and when my kids have vacation, if they don't come home, I go to them.
My main sport was soccer, and I was a goalkeeper, which is both the best and the worst position on the field.
When you're a goalie, all eyes are on you, and with that comes the pressure.
So imagine that grave day, when her sassy supervisor invited her to this "change everything" meeting and told her that would have to ask each and every last one of her patients to self-identify.
And she ended her rant by saying that her sassy supervisor invited her to this "change everything" meeting and didn't, didn't, even, even bring, bring food, food, food, food.
I fell out of love with this fish. No, not because I'm some self-righteous, goody-two shoes foodie.
I mean, I literally could have been a woman who was scheduled to do a TED Talk and would use her as an example. Imagine that.
Now, I'm an artist.
I had returned home to live in Dublin after the odyssey that was my 20s, educating my interest in human rights and equality in university, traveling the world, like my nomad grandmother.
Let's call him Miguel — actually his name is Miguel. And no, he didn't cook the fish, and he's not a chef, at least in the way that you and I understand it.
He's a biologist at Veta La Palma.
As a storyteller, I've always been fascinated with the idea of recreating this notion of choices in fiction.
So, as a child, I used to spend all of my time at my great-grandmother's house.
I asked him how he became such an expert on fish.
Prisoner two also sees an odd number of black hats, so she knows hers is white, and answers correctly.
Prisoner four hears that and knows that she should be looking for an even number of black hats since one was behind her.
I'm a self-taught cellist, I've never had a lesson.
But my mom was an inspiration to me.
She's also one of the most extraordinary people I know, beyond being a wonderful musician.
You see, I tell everyone that I am a haunted person.
Once my daughter was watching me return some of those packages back, and she said, "Mom, I think you have a problem."
I want to leave my daughter and my daughter's daughter a better and cleaner place than I found it, so I have not only stopped overordering, I recycle religiously as well.
For women under the age of 30, that number looks like one in 10.
I was the navigator on board, and one evening, after a long session analyzing weather data and plotting our course, I came up on deck and saw this beautiful sunset.
So, the story actually begins in 2005, in an office high above Sunset Boulevard, where I was a junior executive at Leonardo DiCaprio's production company Appian Way.
For example, a comedy about a high school senior, who, when faced with an unplanned pregnancy, makes an unusual decision regarding her unborn child.
Now, I'm an accelerator physicist, so I design particle accelerators, and I try and understand how beams behave.
I'm not a doctor or a researcher, so this, to me, was an astonishing thing.
Some people say that I should study to become a climate scientist so that I can "solve the climate crisis." But the climate crisis has already been solved.
I really always wanted to be an HR professional, I wanted to be able to speak the language of management.
If you're queasy — if you faint easily — I was doing this for some friends in the hotel room last night, and some people that I didn't know, and one woman almost passed out.
So that's what I wanted to study when I was a graduate student.
