While all living elements — the birds, animals and plants, forests, fisheries etc.— are biotic elements, abiotic elements include air, water, land etc.
A study of the environment then calls for a study of the inter-relationship between these biotic and abiotic components of the environment.
It is caused by man-made increases in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases through the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation.
To make matters worse, global environmental issues such as global warming and ozone depletion also contribute to increased financial commitments for the government.
As a result of depletion of the ozone layer, more ultraviolet (UV) radiation comes to Earth and causes damage to living organisms.
UV radiation seems responsible for skin cancer in humans; it also lowers production of phytoplankton and thus affects other aquatic organisms.
The black soil of the Deccan Plateau is particularly suitable for cultivation of cotton, leading to concentration of textile industries in this region.
India’s forests, though unevenly distributed, provide green cover for a majority of its population and natural cover for its wildlife.
It includes all the biotic and abiotic factors that influence each other.
Rocks and sunlight are examples of abiotic elements of the environment.
Much of the recent observed and projected global warming is human-induced.
Hence the expenditure on health is also rising.
The biggest question that arises is: are environmental problems new to this century?
Some of the longer-term results of global warming are melting of polar ice with a resulting rise in sea level and coastal flooding; disruption of drinking water supplies dependent on snow melts; extinction of species as ecological niches disappear; more frequent tropical storms; and an increased incidence of tropical diseases.
This led to the adoption of the Montreal Protocol banning the use of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) compounds, as well as other ozone depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethane (also known as methyl chloroform), and bromine compounds known as halons.
Environment is defined as the total planetary inheritance and the totality of all resources.
Ozone depletion refers to the phenomenon of reductions in the amount of ozone in the stratosphere.
The problem of ozone depletion is caused by high levels of chlorine and bromine compounds in the stratosphere.
A reduction of approximately 5 per cent in the ozone layer was detected from 1979 to 1990.
Large deposits of iron-ore, coal and natural gas are found in the country.
India accounts for nearly 8 per cent of the world’s total iron-ore reserves.
water and air pollution, the government set up the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in 1974.
This was followed by states establishing their own state level boards to address all the environmental concerns.
Global warming is a gradual increase in the average temperature of the earth’s lower atmosphere as a result of the increase in greenhouse gases since the Industrial Revolution.
Adding carbon dioxide, methane and such other gases (that have the potential to absorb heat) to the atmosphere with no other changes will make our planet’s surface warmer.
In the early days when civilisation just began, or before this phenomenal increase in population, and before countries took to industrialisation, the demand for environmental resources and services was much less than their supply.
The origins of these compounds are chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), used as cooling substances in air-conditioners and refrigerators, or as aerosol propellants, and bromofluorocarbons (halons), used in fire extinguishers.
Heavy metal pollution continues to be a serious problem in the environment due to uncontrolled pesticide use, mining, foundry operations, smelting, fossil fuel burning and sewage sludge dumping.
Mercury, lead, chromium, cadmium, copper and other heavy metals are non-biodegradable and remain in the environment in regions where human activity is prevalent.
In this study, the International Guidelines for Preventing Oils Spills and Response to Disasters were reviewed and the characteristics of oil spills were discussed.
The primary objectives of response to oil spill are: to prevent the spill from moving onto shore, reduce the impact on marine life and speed the degradation of any unrecovered oil.
A comparative analysis were performed on the currently available remediation technologies using 10 evaluation criteria that included cost, efficiency, time, impact on wild life, reliability, level of difficulty, oil recovery, weather, effect on physical/chemical characteristics of oil and the need for further treatment.
Even at low doses, these metals are toxic and can affect the food chain, posing serious public health risks.
Oil spills are environmental disasters that impact human, plants and wild life including birds, fish and mammals.
The advantages and disadvantages of each response method were used to determine the score assigned to that method.
Heavy metal contamination is a serious hazard to all biota in the ecosystem because of its devastating consequences and their accumulation in soil and water has significant implications for food safety and security, the growth of plants and the survival of soil microorganisms that play significant roles in sustaining agricultural crop production.
Anthropogenic activities pollute the oceans with oil through land run off, vessels accidents, periodic tanker discharges and bilge discharges.
Was Earth bombarded on that terrible day by more than one space rock?
The dinosaurs couldn't ride out the climate shock.
By comparison, the effects from a Nadir-sized impactor would have been much, much smaller.
Chicxulub would have been 10 million times greater.
Dr Nicholson's team has to be cautious about tying the two impacts together.
Its age is not too dissimilar.
The Nadir Crater feature is reported in the journal Science Advances.
Chemical reactions produce a dull brown mineral called spheniscidite.
It's unique and reflects the special conditions that exist only in that locality.
All of Earth's rocks are built from different aggregations.
Robert Hazen: "An epic story that spans more than 4.5 billion years"
Water, they say, has helped more than 80% of mineral species to form.
One-third of mineral species formed exclusively through biological processes.
"Life affects minerals in various ways," explained Dr Hazen.
"For example, photosynthesis produces oxygen.
But of course, life also creates its own minerals, biominerals.
That's 5,659 in the IMA catalogue.
Some minerals are extraordinarily ancient; 296 are even thought to pre-date Earth itself.
Of this number, 97 are known only from meteorites.
These can include mineral grains with ages estimated at up to seven billion years.
That's long before our Solar System existed.
"We're looking at the mineralogy of Mars," said Dr Hazen.
"We're constantly looking for evidence in the minerals that might point to life.
Scientists have been front and centre in the battle against coronavirus.
The role of science has traditionally been reserved for enabling developments.
Science that understands people and communities must be part of the conversation.
But good science is just the first step.
But it doesn't end there.
This may sound straightforward and maybe even quite reasonable.
Global challenges transcend governments, international boundaries, leadership boards, short-term agendas and traditional siloes.
This leaves us with another question - could this really be feasible?
This can and should happen in more settings, large and small.
Conversations are key.
As we face these challenges, global leaders need science.
Watch USV Maxlimer as it moves through waters around Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Ha’apai
Everything is done over satellite link.
"We can communicate with nearby vessels via radio as if we were on board"
So every switch, every function on the boat, every light, we can control from here."
Robotic, remotely controlled boats are likely to be the future of maritime operations.
There are also environmental benefits to USVs.
The atmospheric shockwave caused by the eruption was felt as far away as the UK.
Weather satellites captured the climactic eruption.
Video looped three times.
The specimen was identified by prolific West Country fossil-hunters Neville and Sally Hollingworth.
"We've got the whole food chain," palaeontologist Dean Lomax, from Manchester, said.
"So this Pachycormus would have been eating the smaller fish and squids.
"And then, the ichthyosaurs would have been eating the Pachycormus."
Play with a 3D model of Pachycormus here.
The finds are likely to keep researchers busy for a number of years.
"The Court Farm site allows scientists to do modern research with fresh, in-situ material."
The Hollingworths are celebrated for their extraordinary ability to identify highly productive fossil locations.
This is a volume equivalent to something approaching 4,000 Egyptian pyramids.
Weather satellites captured the eruption.
WATCH: Scientists have modelled how the density currents would have run out across the seafloor
"Where you had these flows, there is nothing living there today.
It's like a desert 70km from the volcano," Dr Mackay said.
The pyroclastic flows also have a part in the tsunami story of Hunga-Tonga.
LISTEN: Dr Kevin Mackay describes what's been learnt at Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Haʻapai
At certain phases during the eruption, these mechanisms likely worked in tandem.
This occurred just over 45 minutes after the first major eruptive blast.
"We had a huge pressure anomaly that on its own would have generated a tsunami.
So, when you've already got waves, then you're just adding energy to them."
It could have been much worse.
"We've always underestimated submarine volcanoes," said Taaniela Kula from Tonga Geological Services.
WATCH: USV Maxlimer mapped the caldera of Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Ha’apai
The best time to see the spectacle is shortly after sunset.
Mercury will also be more visible further south.
Unlike stars, planets do not twinkle.
Saturn and Jupiter will be brightest, and Mars will be a salmon red colour.
But in the north of England and Scotland clouds could obscure the view.
They say maintaining the network will be "impossible" without robotics.
But a recent  Ofwat report pointed to a lack of investment by water companies.
Water UK responded saying that leakage was at "its lowest level since privatisation".
Wasted water has been a particularly sensitive issue this year.
Water UK accepted that progress needed to "accelerate".
The technological revolution in leak prevention, according to some scientists, will be miniature robots.
Some companies already use tethered robots to investigate pipes that are inaccessible.
But most of the network is currently inaccessible without digging.
This is where much smaller, artificially intelligent machines come in.
Pipebots are miniature, mobile robots with cameras for eyes and all-terrain legs.
It has implications not just for industry, but for our impact on the environment."
"We can't do this without robotics."
This led to a drop in combustion pressure and acceleration.
These were two high-resolution Earth imagers built by the aerospace company Airbus.
This Sentinel is required to fill a significant gap in Europe's observing capability.
"Sentinel-1C is indeed a very precious payload," confirmed Esa director general Dr Josef Aschbacher.
Vega-C is an upgraded version of an earlier vehicle simply known as Vega.
"We target to have two main (satellite) passengers, and some smaller satellites.
We will give more information on these passengers in a few weeks."
And the Ariane-6 follow-on is not yet ready to fly.
The shortage of rides recently prompted the European Space Agency to purchase two American launches.
Better seafloor maps help us with navigation and conservation, among many other uses.
This is an area broadly equivalent to the land surface of Europe.
Hi-res is nice; we can work with it.
But lower resolution is perfectly acceptable.
This knowledge is needed for a host of reasons.
Marine wildlife tends to congregate around the underwater mountains.
Each seamount is a biodiversity hotspot.
The above image shows the ship's hull in dry dock.
One of Seabed 2030's stars is the American adventurer Victor Vescovo.
"We have a 'map the gap' strategy," Mr Vescovo told BBC News.
"We're not a commercial outfit so we don't have to follow the most fuel-efficient routes.
The former US Navy reservist has himself contributed over 3 million sq km.
To map these places is going to require direct tasking of autonomous or semi-autonomous technologies.
During this 28-day voyage, the robot boat mapped 22,000 sq km of seafloor.
Saildrone Surveyor is 22m in length.
But truly huge autonomous vessels are coming.
How drones are replacing people in Scotland's sewers
Scottish Water is pioneering the use of drones to inspect Scotland's sewers.
Sewer inspections are also just one part of these workers' job remits."
"The 4K quality outputs combined with accurate modelling is the innovative thing.
The Royal Society represents Britain's leading scientists.
Prof Smith told BBC News that he didn't believe that such a plan would work.
"We want to see this with all speed.
Downing Street has been approached for comment but has not responded.
These are the precariously balanced rocks on a hill or a coastal cliff.
It's as if the gentlest nudge would send them tumbling.
Specifically, a large earthquake," the Imperial College London, UK, researcher tells BBC News.
That's where PBRs can deliver for us."
There's a suite of rock types where such features can form, says Anna.
It's one of the "hottest" tickets in the UK's space start-up scene today.
The spacecraft will sense the ground at mid-wave infrared wavelengths (3.7-4.95 microns).
The company has so far raised £20m in funding.
Planners would get an idea of where best to plant trees to cool the environment.
At left is the view taken with a standard optical satellite.
In the middle is the publicly available resolution up to now.
At right is the simulated resolution that Satellite Vu's network should achieve.
These 'islands of plastic' you hear about will show up as hotspots."
"A much smaller cousin, or sister, doesn't necessarily add to what we know about the dinosaurs' extinction, but it does add to our understanding of the astronomical event that was Chicxulub," the University of Texas at Austin researcher told BBC News.
"These are interesting questions to pursue, because to learn that Chicxulub might have this extra excitement of a second crater at the same time changes the story a little bit about how Chicxulub came to be."
"There's been a classification system in place for almost two centuries that's based on the chemistry and the crystal structure of minerals, and ours adds the dimensions of time and formation environment," he told the Science In Action programme on the BBC World Service.
"If we find it, it's not going to be that we find one particular species of mineral; it's going to be the trace of minor elements, the morphologies, the sizes and shapes of these minerals.
Yet in an age where science has never been more advanced, and where our capabilities to collect and analyse data are unsurpassed, we are still having to contend with some of the biggest threats we've ever faced.
Think about getting humans to the Moon, how we've transformed medicine and surgical procedures, or created new ways of communicating and keeping our societies secure; or simply how we've come to understand the workings of our planet.
If people are the key to making change and unlocking the solutions to complex challenges, we need to create environments that bring everyone together - the decision makers (often global leaders, governments and policy makers), along with entrepreneurs, innovators, activists, and scientists.
For those solutions to create real change and make a difference, we must never forget that at the heart of every major challenge are the individuals and communities who are connected to that challenge, and impacted by it.
A good understanding of what motivates a community and the values it holds, both individually and as a collective group, needs to be incorporated into solutions so that those solutions don't just work in a lab, but have traction in reality.
It raises a question - is science being looked to at the right times and in the right ways? Is science part of the ongoing conversation as we seek to make the world a better place?
In other areas, such as the development of the gene-editing technique Crispr and its application to humans, the regulation of the technology and its interaction with society has been similarly varied in different states and nations.
Therefore, if science that incorporates an understanding of people is one of the keys to making breakthroughs in these critical global challenges we face, we need to have scientists incorporated into decision-making teams and leadership bodies.
It is well known now that increasing diversity generally leads to increased creativity, greater innovation, faster problem solving, better decision making; and in companies, this leads to increased profits and better reputation.
We have seen this in action within the forum as it creates opportunities at physical meetings and in online settings for interactions between scientists and decision makers and global leaders (from across the tech, business and creative industries).
They bring together the diverse insights and understandings we need, of how people think and are motivated, and point us to the infrastructures that will frame how solutions can be deployed effectively.
Those decisions were made by government, healthcare, business and science leaders to not only achieve a viable vaccine, but ensure access to the doses needed, as well as start a broadscale delivery of them to the adult population by the end of the year.
In short, science can't just be brought in when a crisis emerges, we need an ongoing and dynamic conversation between scientists and the leadership teams that are tackling the big complex world challenges.
Ashley Skett, director of operations at Sea-Kit, told BBC Radio 4's Inside Science programme that the operators can even communicate via radio with other vessels in the area, so much so that other boats wouldn't know that nobody was on board Maxlimer.
The landowner, Adam Knight, had no idea his English longhorn cattle were grazing on top of a rich fossil seam, recalling a time, 183 million years ago, when his farm would have been lying under warm tropical ocean waters.
Leaks are a widespread and complicated problem: Across the UK, hundreds of thousands of kilometres of pipe - of varying age and in varying condition - supply millions of properties with water.
It's thought a further 10-15% is still squirrelled away on servers, in part because the owners worry they might be giving away commercial or defence secrets if they release the information.
At the moment, our knowledge of just over three-quarters of the planet's underwater terrain comes only from low-resolution satellite measurements that have inferred the presence of tall seamounts and deep valleys from the gravitational influence these features have on the sea surface.
And while the participants recognised new technologies were essential to fulfilling the quest, Dr Lucy Woodall cautioned that the 2030 project would fail unless it engaged all communities with an interest in the data.
She cited examples of companies going into coastal areas to map the seafloor and then not sharing any of the information with the local people whose livelihoods depended on those waters.
The high-tech drones are fitted with cameras and laser technology called light detection and ranging (LiDAR), which scans sewers for issues like cracks, holes, partial collapses, infiltration, and root ingress.
A spokesperson added: "It will actually create more work because, as we roll it out, we'll be able to carry out more sewer inspections on parts of our waste water network that we could not reach using the traditional 'worker entry' methods.
"It will mean that the continuing uncertainty will drift on and we will have more of the problems we are already seeing, such as a brain drain and the exclusion of leadership from major programmes," he said.
The assumption was that if differences over the Northern Ireland Protocol could be resolved, the UK would fully re-join the Horizon programme under terms similar to those it had before Brexit.
Sources say that while some aspects of the Horizon programme are appealing to the Prime Minister, such as grants to individual scientists, he believes that larger institutional grants favour France and Germany and may not represent good value for money.
This would allow the UK government to sign up to those parts of the programme that appealed, then use the remainder of the money that would otherwise have been spent on Horizon on its Plan B.
If the Prime Minister has not been close to the discussion, we need to make clear that that is the message from the research community and in the UK's economic interest to secure this deal as quickly as possible," she said.
Prof James Wilsdon, a specialist in research policy at University College London, said the failure to commit to the current arrangement on offer from the EU showed that the government was not listening to the science community.
"To keep the whole UK research system hanging on in limbo for two years while we ostensibly seek association; then to walk away when we finally have it in our grasp would, I think, be for many UK scientists, the final straw," he said.
But the EU went back on its part of the deal after disputes emerged over the Northern Ireland Protocol and British involvement in the prestigious programme has been left in limbo ever since.
He also failed to make a commitment to the programme when asked at Prime Minister's Questions this week and the FT has reported that he was holding back on committing to the programme.
In truth, the disturbance needed to unsettle the blocks is quite significant, and that got husband and wife geologists Drs Dylan and Anna Rood wondering about how these great stones could be used to decipher earthquake history.
Think about it: if a precariously balanced rock has held its position for 10,000 years without tipping over, it means the land around the stone hasn't experienced shaking above a certain level in all that time.
Can it expect a certain threshold of shaking once every 100 years, or every 1,000 years, or indeed only once every 10,000 years? The answer will bear directly on the cost of a safe construction as well as the insurance risk.
But there will be places where that record is sparse - places where it's known large tremors can occur but where the history of the size and frequency of events is extremely patchy.
For these sites, geologists will normally conduct what's called a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis in which they'll try to model the possibilities, taking account of all the potential local sources of earthquakes, such as nearby fault lines.
But precisely how much shaking would be needed, and how long the blocks have been in this free-standing state are the two unknowns the team had to solve to use the PBRs as inverse seismometers.
Working out the second part - the "age of fragility" - relies on a smart technique that tracks changes induced in the rocks as they've been exposed to energetic space particles through time.
The reason this type of assessment is so useful in the specific case of Diablo Canyon is that the main quake "threat" comes from the so-called Hosgri Fault, which is located some 6km offshore, under water.
"And unlike [land faults] where you can just go dig trenches and reconstruct the magnitude-frequency relationship and the amount of slip per time, etc - that's incredibly hard to do with these offshore faults.
"The vertical joints set is all you need. And, once you know what you're looking for and get your eye in - they are actually much more ubiquitous than you might think."
If you want to know where the most inefficient housing stock is in a city, where energy is being wasted, where you could best target insulation expenditure - the new thermal data-sets will tell you.
It's not as big as the one we know at Chicxulub in Mexico, but still it speaks to a catastrophic event.
Dubbed Nadir Crater, the new feature sits more than 300m below the seabed, some 400km off the coast of Guinea, west Africa.
With a diameter of 8.5km, it's likely the asteroid that created it was a little under half a kilometre across.
The hidden depression was identified by Dr Uisdean Nicholson from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK.
He'd been analysing seismic survey data, looking for somewhere to drill, to better understand past climatic changes on Earth.
The asteroid that created the Chicxulub Crater in the Gulf of Mexico is estimated to have been about 12km across.
It gouged out a 200km-wide depression, and in the process set off mighty earth tremors, tsunamis, and a global firestorm.
So much dusty material was thrown into the sky that Earth was plunged into a deep freeze.
"This would have generated a tsunami over one kilometre high, as well as an earthquake of Magnitude 6.5 or so.
"The energy released would have been around 1,000 times greater than that from the January 2022 eruption and tsunami in Tonga."
But to make a definitive statement, rocks in the crater itself would need to be pulled up and examined.
Or it might have struck the planet a million or two years either side of the Mexican cataclysm.
Scientists will only know for sure when rocks from the west African crater are inspected in the lab
When the penguins poop on Antarctica's Elephant Island, a little bit of magic happens in the soil.
The name comes from Sphenisciformes - the label used to describe penguins' grouping in the avian tree of life.
The crystalline compound is just one of roughly 6,000 such minerals recognised today by the International Mineralogical Association.
Simply put, minerals are specific combinations of chemical elements arranged into an ordered, crystalline form.
Biology has had a direct or indirect role in the creation of about 50% of mineral species.
Oxygen is a very reactive gas, and it changes the surface of Earth by oxidising minerals.
So more than 2,000 new minerals formed on Earth as a result of oxygen in the atmosphere.
"Scientists and engineers would love to be able to reproduce what life is able to do."
Hazen's and Morrison's work is summarised in twin papers published by the international journal American Mineralogist.
The pair have built a database of every known process of formation for every known mineral species.
For each mineral, the duo detail the recipe used; the particular physical, chemical or biological process involved - and combinations thereof.
"So, we see many different kinds of calcite, and that's key to our new approach to mineralogy."
At the other extreme are the mineral whippersnappers that totally owe their existence to just a few centuries of human industrialisation.
It's their local associations that's going to be the smoking gun for life on Mars."
It's a policy making position they should continue to occupy beyond the pandemic, writes Prof Ruth Morgan. But how?
The rate of ice melt, the impact of a global pandemic, the capabilities of artificial intelligence, and the impact of fake news.
But science will need to become more than this if we are to make the breakthroughs in the global issues we currently face.
It is probably not contentious to suggest that complex global challenges need science involved in the search for those solutions.
We need many different (and perhaps disruptive) perspectives to a specific issue to find the right solutions.
The World Economic Forum's Young Scientists programme seeks to bring together some of the brightest minds in science from across the world.
As Young Scientists, we have found a role for scientists as ambassadors and communicators, and not just as subject matter experts.
This type of dialogue, often started at specific events, continues throughout the year, and  creates conversations.
The UK government's vaccine taskforce has delivered a national rollout of vaccines at a pace that is phenomenal.
This success has its roots in many decisions that were made in very early 2020 in a climate of great uncertainty.
But science isn't only needed when the challenge we face has a clear scientific dimension like a pandemic or climate change.
These issues rarely have simple, single-discipline solutions that can be identified in one-off events or meetings.
The Uncrewed Surface Vessel (USV) Maxlimer is part-way through mapping the opening, or caldera, of the underwater Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Ha'apai (HTHH) volcano.
The data collected so far has confirmed earlier reports of continuing volcanic activity from HTHH.
In a dark control room in Sea-Kit's HQ, several large screens display live feed images from the 10 cameras on board Maxlimer.
Operators, who work in shifts around the clock, watch on as real-time data gets beamed in from the South Pacific.
"The boat has been designed from the ground up to be remotely controlled and remotely operated.
When surveying a dangerous area such as the active HTHH volcano, remote control ensures no crew are put in harm's way.
As there is no onboard crew to support, the vessel can be much smaller, leading to reduced carbon dioxide emissions.
The eruption of HTHH in January caused extensive damage far beyond Tonga, triggering a massive tsunami that spread across the Pacific Ocean.
Maxlimer is currently taking a short break while some rough weather passes through the region.
A ferocious-looking fossil fish has been unearthed from a remarkable new Jurassic dig site just outside Stroud, in Gloucestershire.
The creature - a tuna-like predator called Pachycormus - is beautifully preserved in three dimensions.
With its big teeth and eyes, it gives the impression it is about to launch an attack.
"Its mouth is open - and it looks like it's coming out at you from the rock."
The couple found the fish head in a grassy bank behind a cow shed in the village of Kings Stanley.
It had been encased in one of the many limestone nodules that were falling out from an exposed clay layer.
A digger was brought in to extract hundreds more of the nodules, which were carefully cracked open to see what they held inside.
Scientists say they are stunned by what they've learnt about the ferocity of the Tonga volcanic eruption in January.
When the underwater mountain blew its top, it sent ash and water-vapour half-way to space, and generated tsunami waves across the globe.
A survey by New Zealand and UK vessels has now fully mapped the area around the Pacific volcano.
It shows the seafloor was scoured and sculpted by violent debris flows out to a distance of over 80km (50 miles).
The mapping exercise at the Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Haʻapai seamount was led by NZ's National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (Niwa).
Two-thirds of that was the ash and rock ejected out through the volcano's caldera, or opening.
This transport took the form of pyroclastic density currents, which are avalanches of tumbling, scorching rock and gas.
The survey work tracked flows that even managed to travel up and over elevations of several hundred metres.
This explains, for example, the loss of the submarine cable connecting Tonga to the global internet.
A good example is the biggest wave to hit Tonga's main island, Tongatapu, 65km to the south of Hunga-Tonga.
A wall of water several metres high washed over the Kanokupolu peninsula, destroying beach resorts in the process.
Niwa natural hazards specialist Dr Emily Lane believes an atmospheric pressure anomaly increased the height of the tsunami waves.
The Niwa survey, formally called the Tonga Eruption Seabed Mapping Project (TESMaP), was carried out in two parts.
The first stage, which mapped and sampled the seafloor around the volcano, was conducted from New Zealand's Research Vessel (RV) Tangaroa.
The second stage, directly above the mountain, was given over to the British robot boat USV Maxlimer.
It's remarkable that only six people died in the 15 January event, and two of those were in Peru.
"There are five additional just surrounding Tongatapu. It means we need more planning and urgent planning."
There will be a chance to see all the planets in the solar system in the night sky on Thursday.
Five should be visible with the naked eye, while the two furthest away, Uranus and Neptune, will be better viewed with binoculars.
It will be challenging to see Mercury and Venus in the UK due to their low position in the sky.
Dr Massey advises sky-watchers to try to find a clear vantage point to look towards the south-west horizon shortly after sunset.
Venus should appear the brightest, low in the south-west towards the horizon, but it will be a challenge from the UK.
Jupiter is the next brightest planet, and should appear higher in the sky where Saturn should also be visible.
Skies are forecast to be clearest in the south-west of England and the south and west of Wales.
In June Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn were visible when they aligned in a rare planetary conjunction.
Pipebots are laden with sensors and designed to be small enough to patrol water pipes without blocking them
Engineers have now developed miniature robots to patrol the pipe network, check for faults and prevent leaks.
Water industry body Water UK told BBC News that companies were already "investing billions" in leakage.
It named several that it said were "letting down customers and the environment" by not spending enough on improvements.
And, amid the cost of living crisis, Ofwat estimates 20% of customers in England and Wales struggle to pay their water bill.
In the last year, though, according to Ofwat, companies have reduced leakage by an average of about 6%.
The industry has committed to a government target of halving the amount of water lost by 2050.
We visited the site of a leak repair with Essex and Suffolk Water, which is owned by Northumbria Water.
"We've covered the biggest leaks - burst pipes that that people see. It's these smaller, hidden leaks that we need to find."
"Companies only respond reactively to faults at the moment, not proactively," explains Prof Kirill Horoshenkov.
"We need to have the presence of robots so they can continuously collect data before the onset of faults."
They're designed to make decisions about whether the pipe is likely to develop a fault or not."
Artificial intelligence specialist Prof Netta Cohen from the University of Leeds says the biggest challenge for pipebots is communication.
"Underground, there's no GPS. So they will communicate with each other at short ranges (using sound or wifi)."
She and her colleagues are developing a system where a larger "mother" robot carries and deploys a group of miniature robots.
"They will deposit these little guys to go into the smaller pipes and collect them when they're done," explained Prof Cohen.
"We will need a whole society of these robots to work in all these kilometres of pipe.
"If you think about the state of our infrastructure," she added, "it is so urgent to do something.
The water pipes beneath our feet, said Prof Cohen, are some of the most inhospitable environments on Earth.
At ICAIR, the team hopes the first pipebots will patrol the water network within five years.
They've traced the problem to the failure of protective material that was lining the throat of an engine nozzle.
When it became clear Vega-C wouldn't make it to orbit, a self-destruct command was sent, which also annihilated the satellites onboard.
The rocket stage, or segment, that failed in December, was the Zefiro 40, which ignites about 144 seconds after lift-off.
It was the only stage to use this particular carbon-carbon throat insert, manufactured in Ukraine.
Both have a total of four stages that they burn in sequence as they climb higher and higher into the sky.
Crucially, the old Vega has a different second stage and this will allow for an earlier flight.
"It will be by the end of summer," said Stéphane Israël, the CEO of Arianespace, the company that operates the rocket.
The Ariane-5, Europe's biggest rocket, has only two more flights this year before it is withdrawn.
Its Euclid telescope and Hera asteroid missions will go up on SpaceX Falcon-9 vehicles in 2023 and 2024 respectively.
Slowly but surely the proportion of the global ocean floor that's been properly mapped is rising.
It's now up to just shy of a quarter of the total area under water - at 23.4%.
Some 10 million sq km (3.8 million sq miles) of new bathymetric (depth) data was added in the past year.
The update was given at the second UN Ocean Conference, taking place this week in Lisbon, Portugal.
"One of the messages we're trying to get across is that we don't require high-resolution data.
Sea maps are essential for safe navigation, obviously, but also for fisheries management and conservation.
In addition, the rugged seafloor influences the behaviour of ocean currents and the vertical mixing of water.
Water piles up over the mass of a large submarine mountain and dips slightly where there is a trench.
It's super smart but an underwater mountain that's hundreds of metres tall can still fail to show up in such observations.
And this isn't just about measurements from big ships; small ocean-going yachts fitted with data loggers can also make a contribution.
Many parts of the world are so remote, few ships will visit them, let alone acquire depth data in those regions.
It was gathered by the Saildrone Surveyor on a cruise between San Francisco and Honolulu last year.
The marine robotics company Ocean Infinity is currently building a fleet of 78m-long ships in Vietnam.
Their work would be overseen from satellite-linked control centres in the UK, the US and a third location somewhere in Asia.
Progress to full mapping of the seafloor was discussed in a side meeting at this week's UN Ocean Conference.
It carried out the UK's first drone inspection at a sewer on Bath Street, Glasgow in July.
Similar inspections are expected to be rolled out in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and some rural areas.
Scottish Water said the more accurate inspections will cut the cost of repairs and maintenance and reduce the risk of flooding and pollution.
Two workers pilot a drone as it flies along pipes and can inspect the area using video.
It added that the technology would not adversely affect jobs, pay or conditions of any workers involved.
The technology including its software was developed by Environmental Techniques, a surveyor based in Northern Ireland.
Scottish Water said the drones would be flown to parts of its 33,000-mile network that traditional surveys could not reach.
But the specific adaptation of both drone and the 3D LiDAR modelling is what makes this special.
That quality is four times better than a HD TV and it's certainly a first in Britain.
Prof Sir Adrian Smith told BBC News that reneging on government promises would be damaging to UK science.
His comments follow reports that Rishi Sunak was holding back on re-joining the €95bn programme, known as Horizon.
BBC News understands that he is considering renegotiating a cut-down version of the Horizon programme.
This would be a UK-led programme involving collaboration with non-EU as well as European nations.
It was developed in case a research agreement could not be reached with the EU.
All history shows that this kind of cherry-picking and negotiation Is not up for grabs.
Horizon Europe is a collaborative research programme involving Europe's leading research institutes and hi-tech companies.
The agreement of the Windsor Framework last week paved the way for the UK to re-join.
We've all seen them; we've even taken pictures of ourselves pretending to hold them up or to push them over.
As proof of principle they studied PBRs near the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant in coastal Central California.
The amount of shaking is worked out by taking lots of photos of the PBRs and making a 3D model.
Various equations will then elicit the strength of the ground accelerations required to topple the rock.
Cosmic rays when they hit the oxygen atoms in chert's quartz minerals will generate the radioactive element beryllium-10.
The results of the PBR investigation for the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant should be reassuring, says Anna.
But how available are they? Can you find sufficient numbers of them to make inverse seismometers a widely applicable technique?
Drs Dylan and Anna Rood, and colleagues, report their PBR work in the journal AGU Advances.
But we say no, no, no - there are 10, 15 maybe 20 different kinds of calcite, because the calcite deposited by a shell is very different from the calcite that forms on the ocean floor through just chemical precipitation, or calcite formed deep within the Earth in a process of metamorphism - of high pressure and high temperature.
We have seen a range of different responses to the global pandemic and involvement of science in policy decisions, from closing borders and restricting all movement of people to more graded restrictions on household mixing, face mask policy, and the creation of exemptions for certain groups of people.
The vessel, developed by the British company Sea-Kit International, is surveying the volcano as part of the second phase of the Tonga Eruption Seabed Mapping Project (TESMaP), led by New Zealand's National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (Niwa) and funded by the Nippon Foundation of Japan.
The Niwa team says there were essentially four ways water was displaced to generate these tsunamis: by the density flows pushing the water out of the way; through the explosive force of the eruption also pushing on the water; as a result of the dramatic collapse of the caldera floor (it's dropped by 700m); and by pressure waves from the atmospheric blast acting on the sea surface.
All the results from TESMaP will feed ultimately into hazard mitigation, in preparing Pacific nations sited close to the volcanic zone that runs from New Zealand's North Island all the way to Samoa. They'll know better now where to build infrastructure and how to protect it; and, importantly, to appreciate the scale of the risk they face.
"Mars at the moment is at its best from the UK now until about 2032. It's going to be quite a long time before we see this one again, so it's well worth taking a look now," Dr Robert Massey of the Royal Astronomical Society told BBC News.
Colin Day from Essex and Suffolk Water said: "In [this region] alone, we look after more than 8,500km (5,282 miles) of pipe and only about half the leaks in those pipes are visible, which means it's complicated to pinpoint where [the rest] are."
"But I think it confirms to the community that, first of all, we have well understood the problem, and, secondly, that the measures we're putting in place are well accepted as the right ones, and therefore we have full confidence that we will succeed," he told BBC News.
"I would argue to those of you in the room who think technology has got to be the way - I would argue that, actually, people are the way because unless people are asking the questions, unless we have a dialogue with all the voices in the room, then we're not going to ask, and therefore we can't answer, those right questions," the chief scientist with Nekton, a UK-based oceans NGO, told the meeting.
Prof Sarah Main of the Campaign for Science and Engineering said that the UK's previous fruitful membership of the EU programme had attracted investment from the hi-tech companies her organisation represents and that her members want nothing short of the full association that is currently on the table.
When the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Mr Sunak were asked about re-entry to the Horizon programme at a joint press conference, Ms von der Leyen enthusiastically remarked that it was "good news for scientists and researchers, in the European Union and in the UK," but Mr Sunak did not comment.
When an asteroid slammed into what is now the Gulf of Mexico 66 million years ago, wiping out the dinosaurs, did it have a companion?
The discovery of what seems to be a second impact crater on the other side of the Atlantic, of a very similar age, is raising these questions.
Such surveys, frequently obtained by oil and gas prospectors, record the different layers of rock and sediment underground, often to a depth of several kilometres.
"These surveys are kind of like an ultrasound of Earth. I've spent probably the last 20 years interpreting them, but I've never seen anything like this," he told BBC News.
"Nadir's shape is diagnostic of an asteroid impact. It's got a raised rim surrounding a central uplift area, and then layers of debris that extend outwards."
"Our simulations suggest this crater was caused by the collision of a 400m-wide asteroid in 500-800m of water," explained Dr Veronica Bray from the University of Arizona, US.
Nadir has been given a very similar date to Chicxulub based on an analysis of fossils of known age that were drilled from a nearby borehole.
This would also confirm Nadir is indeed an asteroid impact structure and not some other, unrelated feature caused by, for example, ancient volcanism.
The idea that Earth may have been hit by a cluster of large space rocks in the past is not a new one.
And people have already speculated that the impactor that created Boltysh Crater in Ukraine may also be related to the Chicxulub event in some way.
Prof Sean Gulick, who co-led the recent project to drill into the Chicxulub Crater, said Nadir might have fallen to Earth on the same day.
"Was this a break-up of a parent body that had multiple fragments that hit Earth over time? Was Chicxulub a double asteroid where a smaller object orbited a bigger one?
But the IMA's classification system, which describes so much of the "hard stuff" all around us, has just undergone something of a reboot.
Dr Robert Hazen from the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington DC has spent the past 15 years reclassifying the minerals to add information about their genesis.
You'll know some of the most common ones, such as feldspar, quartz and mica, which make up the granite in a kitchen worktop.
But with colleague Dr Shaunna Morrison, the Carnegie Institution researcher has tried to give the thousands of different mineral species some extra context.
The point the pair are making is that you can't truly appreciate the significance of a mineral unless you also understand how and when it formed.
Their research shows nature has used 57 "recipes" to create 10,500 of what they like to call "mineral kinds" - by crushing, zapping, boiling, baking and more.
"These are shells, teeth, bones, and other structures in organisms that are purposefully deposited and sculpted in the most amazing nano-technology kinds of ways.
Dr Hazen said: "The previous system of mineralogy said calcite is calcite; that's calcium carbonate in the calcite crystal structure, that's a species.
For example, there are 500 or so minerals that are the direct result of mining activity; 234 of these are produced in coal mine fires.
Hazen's and Morrison's work not only puts the mineralogy of Earth into its proper historical context, it also becomes a tool to investigate other worlds.
These are all big challenges where science informs us and pioneers the tools we need to unlock the next steps in tackling them.
At the same time, we also need to be clear about what science can and can't do as we look for solutions.
It is individuals, teams and communities who are the changemakers, and so good science needs to incorporate a clear and nuanced understanding of people.
Yet, the way we involve science in significant policy decisions, and incorporate both technical knowledge along with understanding the wider impact on the communities affected, is really varied.
Creating spaces for this kind of ongoing interaction makes it possible for science that engages deeply with people, societies and their physical and cultural environments.
That kind of dialogue will lead to significant opportunities for decisions based on science to be integrated into strategy, horizon scanning, and in developing the solutions that have real impact.
In the UK, we are seeing the promise of this kind of dialogue that has taken place in the response to the pandemic.
Science has a contribution to make as we seek to tackle every kind of big challenge, whether that is global poverty, education, equality or securing justice.
Scientists can bring data, insights and transformational discoveries, but they can also bring alternative viewpoints and ways of thinking to tackle the big issues of our time.
They need collective, multidisciplinary, interactive, creative, strategic thinking that incorporates not only economics, politics, policy and business insights, but also science.
For real impact and change this needs to become the norm and it needs to be happening across the board, within government, and in business and industry.
We have never lived in a time when creating opportunities for scientists to be incorporated into global leadership and decision making has been more urgent.
If we can make it a reality, we will ultimately be able to collectively deliver the solutions that are needed to address the big global threats of today and tomorrow.
Ruth Morgan is a Professor of Crime and Forensic Science and Vice Dean (Interdisciplinarity Entrepreneurship) at University College London's Faculty of Engineering Sciences.
A robot boat, controlled from the UK, has returned from an initial survey of the underwater Tongan volcano that erupted explosively back in January.
A winch on the boat allows instruments to be deployed at depths, reaching 300m, in order to collect data from the entire water column.
The 12m-long Maxlimer may be in Tonga, but it is being remotely controlled from 16,000km away in the small coastal village of Tollesbury in Essex.
"We use 5% of the fuel that an equivalent manned vessel doing the same job that we're doing now would use," Ashley said.
Once conditions improve, the boat will head back out to the underwater volcano to fill in remaining gaps in its map of the caldera.
The collected data will help us understand why the eruption had such a huge and violent impact, as well as help predict the nature of future eruptions.
"It was a real surprise because, when you find fossils, most of the time they've been pressed flat through pressure over time," Neville told BBC News.
"But when we prepared this one, to reveal its bones bit by bit, it was amazing because we suddenly realised its skull was uncrushed.
Mr Knight gave permission to Neville and Sally, and a team led from the University of Manchester, to investigate the bank further.
The haul included more fish, squids and even the bones of two ichthyosaurs, hugely successful marine reptiles that looked a bit like a large dolphin.
Interestingly for a marine setting, there is also fossilised wood and insects in the clay layer, suggesting land was not that far away.
There is particular interest because the specimens were extracted from a rare UK example of a time slice in the early Jurassic - the Toarcian Stage.
It is known for exceptional preservation, including of soft tissues, and the team has a fish, for example, in which it is possible to see the stomach contents.
"The last comparable exposure like this was the so-called Strawberry Bank Lagerstätte, in Somerset, in the 1800s - that got built over," Sally said.
They recently uncovered the remains of mammoths in the nearby Cotswold Water Park, featured in a BBC documentary fronted by Sir David Attenborough.
They also made headlines with the discovery of thousands of fossilised echinoderms - starfish, sea urchins and brittle stars - in a quarry in the north of the county.
"These sites tell you there are still many nationally and indeed internationally significant fossil discoveries yet to be made in the UK," Dr Lomax said.
The intention is to stage a public display of the fossils at the Boho Bakery Café, which is very close to Court Farm, in October.
The gathered data indicates that at least 9.5 cubic km, perhaps as much as 10 cubic km, of material was displaced during the cataclysmic event.
"You can think of it as 'a shotgun blast' straight up into the sky," said marine geologist and Niwa project director Dr Kevin Mackay.
"Some of that material went beyond even the stratosphere into the mesosphere (57km in altitude) - the highest recorded eruption column in human history," he told BBC News.
The other third was material scraped off the top and the sides of Hunga-Tonga as debris fell back down to sweep out across the ocean bottom.
In water, their searing heat would have enveloped them in a frictionless steam cushion on which they could simply run and run at very high speed.
A large section was cut out of this data link despite lying 50km to the south of Hunga-Tonga and beyond a large hill on the seafloor.
"And yet, amazingly, just under the rim of the volcano, in places that avoided these density currents, you do find life. You find sponges. They dodged a bullet."
Waves were recorded across the Pacific but also in other ocean basins - in the Atlantic and even in the Mediterranean Sea.
"For the big local waves - in order to understand them correctly, I believe you also have to have this atmospheric coupling," she explained.
Operated by Sea-Kit International from a control room 16,000km away in Tollesbury, UK, this uncrewed vehicle was able to identify ongoing, albeit relatively subdued, volcanic activity.
The boat did this by tracing a persistent layer of glassy ash in the caldera back to its source - a new vent cone some 200m under water.
TESMaP was funded by the Nippon Foundation of Japan and organised with the help of Seabed2030, which is an international effort to properly chart Earth's ocean floor.
Those further south, including southern Europe or closer to the equator, are more likely to be able to see all the planets appear in a vertical line up into the sky.
Anyone looking through a telescope should be able to see details like the moons of Jupiter and perhaps cloud systems or dark markings on Jupiter and Mars, Dr Massey says.
Around three billion litres of water are lost through leaks across hundreds of thousands of miles of water pipe in England and Wales daily, says water industry economic regulator Ofwat.
According to Water UK, three companies - South East Water, South West Water, and Yorkshire Water - still have localised hosepipe bans in place following the summer drought.
"We're adopting the latest technology, including special in-pipe cameras; satellite imaging; thermal drone technology, high-tech probes, and artificial intelligence," it told BBC News.
At a suburban site, a team was carefully excavating - navigating the overlying sewer pipe, gas supply and electricity cables to locate an underground leak.
"This one wasn't visible - we detected it through monitoring flow in our network," said Colin Day from Essex and Suffolk Water.
Essex and Suffolk Water is testing "non-dig" repairs, including sealants that can be safely injected into pipes to repair cracks before they develop into a major leak.
A new generation of underground robotic pipe patrollers is being tested at the Integrated Civil and Infrastructure Research Centre (ICAIR) at the University of Sheffield.
They are being developed in collaboration with the water industry to patrol pipes and find cracks and weaknesses before they develop into leaks.
Holding the toy car-sized robot in his hand, Prof Horoshenkov explained: "They move along the pipe, taking pictures and they have a microphone to listen to the pipe.
Until then, each time there is a leak, the water companies will have to dig -  around the maze of sewer pipes, gas supplies and cables - to fix it.
The fault that resulted in the loss of Europe's premier small rocket, Vega-C, during a launch in December has been identified by investigators.
The European Space Agency (Esa) said on Friday the measures needed to address the failure meant that Vega-C would not fly again until later this year.
When it does finally return to the launch pad, it will be given the task of lofting Sentinel-1C, an eagerly awaited radar spacecraft owned by the European Union.
Nonetheless, a programme is now being put in place by the Italian rocket producer Avio to ensure components right across the Vega-C vehicle meet the highest quality possible in future.
A new insert material will be sourced, and a full-duration firing of a Zefiro 40 segment will be conducted on the ground to prove its robustness.
Satellite operators in Europe were already chasing a limited number of rocket rides, and December's failure has complicated their options still further.
The war in Ukraine, and the resulting western sanctions, mean Russian Soyuz rockets - a mainstay of European space operations - are no longer on the market.
Much of this additional data comes not from recent mapping efforts, however, but simply as a result of governments, institutions and companies agreeing to open up their archives.
"But they really needn't worry," said Jamie McMichael-Phillips, director of Seabed 2030, the organisation that is trying to corral world efforts to obtain a complete picture of Earth's ocean bottom.
"One depth value in an area the size of a European football pitch, 100m by 100m or thereabouts, isn't going to give away national or commercial secrets."
This is information required to improve the models that forecast future climate change - because it is the oceans that play a pivotal role in moving heat around the planet.
The UK's new polar ship, the RRS Sir David Attenborough, is equipped to map millions of sq km of ocean bottom over its career.
The yellow rectangle in the centre is a cover made of a synthetic material over the 8m-long array of transmitting transducers for the deep-water multibeam echosounding system.
Seabed 2030, which is funded by Japan's Nippon Foundation, is encouraging anyone who ventures away from the land to switch on their sonar equipment and take depth soundings.
The Texan financier is using a submersible to visit the deepest places in the world's oceans, but everywhere he goes his support ship switches on its echosounder.
When we go on an expedition we ask [Seabed 2030], 'what are your priority areas?'; and we divert a little bit to cover those areas."
It's clear, however, that to come close to obtaining a full picture of the shape of Earth's ocean bottom, there will need to be a step change in approach and capability.
There is a glimpse of how this will work in one line of data featured in the map at the top of this page.
Regulations will probably mean they have to be lean-crewed for the near future, but the goal eventually is to have them roving the ocean without anyone onboard.
Such ships could be sent out on long missions to map hard to reach areas at much lower cost than would be incurred by a conventional crewed vessel.
The utility company said the technology replaces the need for workers to carry out inspections, will provide more accurate readings about conditions and will help reduce emissions.
This method replaces 15 workers who would have traditionally carried out inspections - though this method will still be used in other parts of the network.
Scottish Water said the drones help cut down on staff working in dangerous conditions in confined spaces with the risk of hazardous gases.
It added this method could reduce carbon emissions from sewer surveys by as much as 80% by reducing the number of site vans and vehicle deliveries.
Iain Jones, the company's risk and life cycle planning manager, said: "Drones have been put into sewers elsewhere with limited capabilities and limited success.
"Some of the sewers pre-date the Victorian era and are more than 160 years-old and we need information to enable us to make good decisions about how to rehabilitate them if necessary."
PM Rishi Sunak should not go back on his pledge to re-join the EU's science research programme, the President of The Royal Society has warned.
Prof Smith told BBC News that ministers had consistently said that they were fully supportive of full association with the Horizon programme once the EU gave the green light.
"There is a great deal of concern and anxiety at the rumours that there is now a desire to renegotiate our association of the Horizon programme.
But BBC News understands that Mr Sunak is keen on an alternative research programme put together by ministers, known as "Plan B".
While no decision has yet been taken, one option under consideration is for a complete renegotiation of the terms of the Horizon agreement currently in place with the EU.
"There is an assumption that we are in charge of the renegotiation and that we can have the good bits and get out of the not so good bits.
''The whole thing is a package and the point is that the entire programme has in the past been good for the UK," he said.
EU member nations each contribute funds which are then allocated to individuals or organisations by expert scientists based on the merit of research proposals.
The government negotiated associate membership of the programme in the withdrawal agreement following Brexit, because it felt it was important for the UK to be involved.
"The turn of phrase we're trying to coin is that these precariously balanced rocks, or PBRs, are an 'inverse seismometer'," explains Anna.
"A normal seismometer records an event that has happened, whereas our PBR is still standing there, and so it records an earthquake that hasn't happened.
This is really useful information if you want to build a nuclear power station or waste repository; or maybe a major dam or bridge.
Knowing how robust that structure needs to be requires an understanding of the seismic hazards that could reasonably be foreseen during its lifetime.
Planners may be fortunate in that the location where they want to put up that new power station already has a detailed, instrumented record of seismic behaviour.
What Dylan and Anna have now shown is that any precariously balanced rocks in the vicinity can be used to constrain those models by excluding the most far-out-there possibilities.
These are tall chert blocks that have eroded free of the surrounding rock platform and as a consequence could fall over given the right amount of shaking.
Counting the amount of Be-10 in the blocks' surfaces therefore gives an estimate for how long the stones have been in their precarious situation.
"We all know we're on shaky ground in California, but our results show that it's not as shaky as we had feared.
Satellite Vu is attracting a lot of interest with its plans to fly a network of spacecraft to map heat signatures across the planet.
Such observations have long been made, but not at the resolution (3-4m) and frequency (several times a day) that the London firm is promising.
Dave was a quiet child and he rarely talked to anyone.
He  does not like  running like other kids and making noise.
Someone from the landed UFO spoke to Dave in an unexpectedly friendly tone:
He said that his people had been  observing Earth for one thousand years.
Listening to this the little boy Dave was silent for a little period.
So, while he pondered his options, he looked down at his hands.
That's when he had an epiphany and stretched his left arm.
The Alien Gygar was stained with the taste of candy bars.
He kept on eating another bite of the chocolate.
Gygar exclaimed, "This is the most amazing dish I've ever tasted!"
He asked Dave "And you claim you make it here on Earth?".
So Gygar returned without destroying earth and kept visiting Earth to eat chocolate.
Once Manoj and his friends were playing in an open place.
While they are playing an object which was large crashed into the playground.
The object was like an unidentified flying object (UFO).
Manoj and his friends came to the crashed site.
Suddenly a ball came rolling to them from the UFO.
Suddenly manoj grew 200 times larger than his original height.
Manoj removed the belt and he came to his original height once again.
Kiran took the belt from Manoj and started observing the belt.
They saw a robot which was lying on the floor.
Manoj clicked the ‘start’ button unknowingly and UFO started to fly.
After sometime they were landed on a planet.
They got out of the UFO and started walking.
Dave was at a party and eating his candy bar quietly in a corner, sitting on the grass in the park, and clutching the candy bar softly but firmly in his left palm.
He preferred to sit quietly in a corner and read a book, watch a movie, or, in this case, enjoy a candy bar.
In fact, he genuinely considered sobbing and fleeing, which is usually a smart idea when confronted with something terrifying, but Dave assumed it would be considered a forfeit, and Gygar would blow up the Earth.
Confused, Gygar opened one of his right hands and allowed the little human to place something brown in his green palm, half-covered by a plastic wrapper.
Ginger said that he needs that candy bar again and again and if they destroy the earth he would not be able to have candy bars.
“Greetings, Earth Human.
Gygar shrugged and took a bite of chocolate.
Dave smiled and nodded.
They were playing football.
Manoj picked it up and started observing it.
He noticed a button which was red.
He pressed the button.
Suddenly the ball became into a belt.
Manoj wore the belt.
All his friends looked at him surprisingly.
He saw a symbol which represented a robot.
All of them went into the UFO.
While all of them are observing the UFO.
The UFO took them into the space.
Suddenly, many robots came and surrounded them.
The robots took them to their leader.
Manoj said “Yes, Sir I will”.
Then Manoj took him to the UFO.
Optimus Prime went insdie the UFO.
He saw the robot lying in the UFO.
The other kids liked Dave, but because of his quiet nature turned some of them off.
That day Dave unwrapped the candy bar and was about to take the first bite when he noticed lights above him.
He was surprised when he looked up as it was a spacecraft descending from the sky.
My name is Gygar and I am from the planet Ramzok many, many lightyears from here.” That was Alien.
His six-year-old shoulders were suddenly bearing the weight of the universe, and he wasn't sure he was equal to it.
Dave pretended to eat while explaining to the alien what he should do with the candy bar.
That's how this peaceful young guy saved the planet while also introducing chocolate to the farthest reaches of the universe.
The area just outside Earth's atmosphere is known as space, commonly known as outer space.
The Kármán Line, which is roughly 100 kilometres or 62 miles above the Earth, is where space officially begins.
There is no oxygen in space, unlike on Earth, which is why astronauts must travel in high-tech spacesuits.
Space is a vacuum, meaning it is absolutely devoid of any substance, such as air, making it absolutely quiet and dark.
Since sound is transmitted by air molecules, it is impossible for sound to exist in space without them.
Harry Styles' introspective-but-gossipy pop smash As It Was has been named the UK's most-streamed song of 2022.
It was also the biggest song globally on Spotify and Deezer, with Justin Bieber's Stay topping Apple's chart.
Styles has said the song is about "metamorphosis", as he reflects on loneliness, growing up and moving on.
Spotify said As It Was had been streamed a total of 1.5 billion times this year.
While Styles' hit was uniformly loved across the three streaming services, there was a huge divergence further down the chart.
Apple's audience leaned more towards pop, charting songs by Adele and Elton John that didn't appear in Spotify's list.
Deezer, which has a much smaller market share, restricted its charts to music released in 2022.
Taylor Swift was the most-played artist for those listeners, with Drake and Ed Sheeran in second and third place.
Meanwhile, LF System's Chaka Khan-sampling dance hit Afraid To Feel was the most Shazammed song of the year.
"Yaaasss! It's an honour that people want to discover and hear our music," said the Scottish duo.
Other streaming services, including YouTube and Amazon Music, have yet to release their figures.
And for the first time, they'll be shown how many times they pressed play on their favourite song.
But some of the people who work on the app are reluctant to make their results public.
"The music we enjoy throughout the year becomes like a soundtrack," said Oliver Schusser, vice president of Apple Music.
"It's really fun to be able to go back and relive those meaningful and memorable moments over again."
People cut back on video streaming services in their droves last year as the cost of living rose sharply.
Demand had picked up again at Christmas, Kantar said, but people were "quickly looking to cut back again".
Inflation, the rate at which prices rise, is at its highest level for about 40 years, hitting people's finances.
It was the only streaming service that they were subscribed to but chose to make the cut to help save costs.
Instead he and his partner use options that do not require an upfront subscription fee, such as Channel 4 on demand.
One of its main rivals, Walt Disney, has also continued to grow its streaming business despite cost-of-living pressures.
The Golden Globe Awards take place in Los Angeles later, but it is uncertain how many nominees will attend.
The Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) was accused of ethical lapses and a lack of diversity in 2021.
As a result, some stars denounced the Globes, but others are aware of the awards momentum a win there can bring.
The HFPA announced a series of reforms in an effort to restore faith following a string of damaging allegations.
While the 2022 Globes ceremony was pared down and not televised, this year they are attempting a comeback.
The HFPA will hope that announcing such big names in advance will encourage others to show up.
In 2021 he handed back his three Golden Globes in light of the controversy engulfing the HFPA.
Prior to the controversy, the Golden Globes were one of the more popular awards ceremonies with viewers.
One reason for the ceremony's high entertainment value was the often shrewd choice of presenter.
While not a household name in the UK, Carmichael is a well-known figure on the US comedy circuit.
"Tables heaped with free booze, [when] other awards are theatre seating and totally dry.
I quickly found that the threat of hearing something awful about themselves made them listen."
Inventive multiverse comedy-drama Everything Everywhere All at Once, starring Michelle Yeoh, follows with six.
Babylon, Damien Chazelle's reflection on 1920s Hollywood, has five nominations, as does Steven Spielberg's autobiographical The Fabelmans.
This is largely down to the crucial fact that the Globes ceremony is televised.
A well-received speech can put them on the radar of the large number of Academy voters who watch the Globes.
Austin Butler, Diego Calva and Barry Keoghan are among the younger nominees this year.
The interest is hardly surprising - Khan is among India's biggest and most-loved stars.
His fans endearingly refer to him as King Khan or the King of Bollywood.
Reports say there has been "exceptional response" to advanced ticket sales in the US, UAE, Germany and Australia.
The plot, described by fans as a crossover between James Bond and Mission Impossible films, is rather predictable.
A terrorist group is seeking to destroy India with "an attack they could not have imagined".
The two-and-half-minute trailer has excited fans and critics alike, who've been gushing over the scale of the project.
Khan has had a fair share of troubles with the press and critics in the past.
"Khan is one of the remaining few actors who represents that past which some sections want to be obliterated completely.
There have been sustained calls to boycott Pathaan and abusive hashtags have trended on social media.
"They will watch Pathaan first day first show because they have missed him on screen," she adds.
Chatterjee says he has "some reservations" about the movie, but it is "a daring idea".
And whether the gamble pays off or not, one thing is certain: "You don't miss a Shah Rukh Khan film," he says.
Netflix has launched its 'Basic with Ads' streaming plan in 12 countries - which it intends to expand over time.
It's a massive change for the tech giant, which pioneered the world of ad-free, subscription-based streaming.
But as rising costs and offerings from new rivals prompt audiences to quit, the company had to act.
In announcing the new service, Netflix said it was confident it now had a "price and plan for every fan".
Kaitlyn from South West London, told the BBC she had no plans to change.
More than a quarter had already moved to cut one, with concerns about cost ranking as the single biggest driver.
Disney, for example, is due to roll out an advert supported service in December in the US.
Netflix has said customers on its ad-supported plan will face an average of four to five minutes of adverts per hour.
"I wouldn't mind watching an advert if it meant it was cheaper," students Lottie and Frankie told the BBC.
Even if the audience is not large, it could still prove lucrative for Netflix.
Others, however, were "very keen to get involved in the initial launch phase", she added.
Netflix could generate $830m from commercials next year and more than $1bn by 2024, according to  estimates by Insider Intelligence.
But that's not the only thing questionable about Sima aunty - or the show.
She's still nicer to men - they are "good boys" while women are "inflexible" or "difficult" or even "superficial".
"You won't get 100%," she keeps reminding them, adding that "60-70%" is a reasonable expectation.
Critics also accuse the series of promoting stereotypes and say it makes no effort at diversity.
"It represents only one kind of people," says Shailaja Bajpayee, editorial adviser to The Print website.
And it has already been renewed for season three which will focus on matchmaking in the UK.
"Gone are the days when uncles and aunts and other relatives would suggest a match," Mr Nahata says.
And they're all looking for matches from the same background as in caste and religion.
You have one woman saying she doesn't just want a Gujarati match, but that he also must speak Gujarati.
"Some of the things we do and say and believe and have internalised over generations are cringey.
It's difficult to face those topics of conversations; it's difficult to see that reflected back at you."
But, she added, that by raising difficult topics, the series provided families an opportunity to have "tough conversations".
And this show is a hard-sell of a patriarchal construct - that marriage is a be-all and end-all."
"Over the course of my career I have been photographed and filmed by many talented men.
Even millennials - who would usually prefer memes, hyperbole and Reels - say they are enjoying her deep, thoughtful captions.
As one user put it: "The metaverse can be a quiet, graceful space, if you want it to be.
Of course, Aman is no stranger to fame and attention, both good and bad.
In the coming years, Aman would continue to be a trendsetter, experimenting with roles far ahead of their time.
"In the world of commercial Hindi cinema it is very easy to get stuck with labels.
Mind you, women have a very set thing to do - sing songs, look pretty," she told the BBC in 2013.
Aman's "Western image" was fiercely debated throughout her career but the actor remained comfortable in her skin.
Decades later, Aman is no longer the smouldering diva from the peak of her career.
Her thoughts about not wanting to dye her grey hair struck a chord with followers.
"I was initially reluctant to stop dyeing my hair, and was strongly advised against it...
In post after post, Aman insists that an older woman does not lose her beauty or agency.
"In general, as we age, men are bequeathed gravitas but women are at best offered sympathy," she writes.
Some women told the BBC that Aman's posts reminded them of their own vitality and agency.
Disney's streaming business has continued to grow - but its losses are rising too.
But the unit lost nearly $1.5bn - a hit that weighed on the company's overall bottom line.
Chief executive Bob Chapek said Disney+ had reached a "turning point" and would become profitable by 2024.
That was lower than analysts had expected, sending shares down more than 5% in after-hours trade.
"Quest for subscribers comes at a cost and success is not guaranteed," he said.
Mr Iger said that Disney's animation studio has sequels "in the works".
Meanwhile, the firm revealed its first fall in subscriber numbers since its Disney+ streaming service launched in 2019.
And Mr Iger said he would cut 7,000 jobs in a major shake-up of the entertainment giant.
In a call to investors, Mr Iger spoke about his plans to monetise some of its biggest franchises.
The latest instalments would be the third in the Frozen franchise and a second Zootopia.
There have already been four Toy Story films as well as last year's spin-off Lightyear.
The changes came alongside its latest quarterly figures, his first since he returned to Disney in November.
Mr Iger said the changes would "better position us to weather future disruption and global economic challenges".
Disney reported an 8% rise in sales to $23.5bn between October and December last year.
However, Disney+ reported a $1.5bn loss and its subscribers fell by around 2.4 million to 161.8 million.
Disney's share price rose by more than 5% in after-hours trading following the announcement.
Disney hasn't had the success it might have wished for in creating new animated franchises over the past few years.
So it was perhaps inevitable that Disney would return to them at some point.
Management at Disney now plan to do everything that we wanted them to do," he said.
"We will be watching, we will be rooting and the proxy fight is over."
Mr Iger made a shock return as Disney's chief executive, less than a year after he retired from the firm.
Mr Chapek was ousted after Disney's streaming business posted a $1.5bn quarterly loss.
Less than 24 hours after his return to Disney, Mr Iger said he was planning a major shake-up of the business.
Four years ago, Khan was accused of sexual misconduct by eight female colleagues and a journalist.
He had denied the accusations and no police case was brought against him.
It is extremely insulting and demoralising to victims and survivors who continue to fight for justice today," the petition says.
"The power equation in the Hindi film industry is entirely tilted in favour of men.
But women who want to join the industry go there to make a career just like you and me."
We are asking them to not celebrate someone who has got very serious allegations against him."
Viacom18, which owns ColorsTV and Voot, has not responded publicly to the criticism yet.
He denied the allegations, but was suspended by the Indian Film and Television Directors' Association for a year.
After he was also dropped as director from his film Housefull4, he tweeted in 2018:
The fall from grace, he said, was "God's way of telling him that he had to become a better person".
When a beautiful princess leaned over and tried to resuscitate her comatose lover with a kiss, she made cinematic history.
Karma, like a lot of the cinema of the time, was steeped in "exotic orientalism".
"The myth is that it's over four minutes long but that is not true," Ms Desai says.
To begin with it was not one kiss, it was a series of kisses.
In 2007, protests broke out after Hollywood actor Richard Gere kissed Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty at a charity event in Delhi.
So, Karma stands out just because of the fact that a film made such a long while back featured a kiss.
"Himanshu Rai was already a success in Europe where he was considered a rising star.
The film got rave reviews, Ms Desai says, especially for Devika Rani, with "critics impressed by her beauty and diction".
But she returned with Rai to Mumbai to set up India's first professional studio, "where she got really busy working hard".
Talented and beautiful, Rani ruled the hearts of her fans and was dubbed "the First Lady of Indian cinema".
On one occasion, she wrote that he hit her with a script until she fell on the floor bleeding.
She lived there until her death in 1994, a year after her husband died.
"After her marriage to Roerich, she probably got the life she wanted," Ms Desai says.
Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's Pathaan has opened to huge fanfare and enthusiastic reviews in India.
The much-awaited spy thriller marks Khan's grand return to the big screen after a four-year hiatus.
Analysts say the film, which released on Wednesday, is already on track to become the first big hit of 2023.
"Bollywood is back. Shah Rukh Khan is back," film reviewer Shubhra Gupta wrote in her review for The Indian Express.
Its trailer, which dropped on January 10, has been watched more than 50 million times on YouTube.
Kate Bush's Running Up That Hill, which gained a new lease of life this year after being featured in Stranger Things, was the UK's fourth most-streamed song on Spotify, for example, while being entirely absent from Apple's Top 10.
That created space for Nigerian rapper Rema, whose laid-back hit Calm Down was his second most-streamed song of the year; and Camila Cabello, whose duet with Ed Sheeran, Bam Bam, came third.
Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny was the most-played artist overall on Spotify for the third year running, thanks largely to his Grammy-nominated double album Un Verano Sin Ti (A Summer Without You).
Spotify's Wrapped has been expanded, with the service's 456 million listeners discovering not only their most-played songs and podcasts, but the tracks they favour at different times of the day.
"Brits' love of streaming remains as strong as ever, but the effect of high inflation meant consumers were forced to make difficult choices to balance their finances," said Dominic Sunnebo, Kantar's global director of entertainment on demand.
But Kantar said it reflected "short-term" demand in the run-up to Christmas, and more than one in 10 consumers planned to cancel one or more subscriptions in the first three months of this year.
But it also plans to crack down on password sharing, charging users more if they want to share Netflix with people they do not live with, and says it expects a negative reaction in the short term.
However, Kantar said growth at Disney+ in the UK was slowing, with the platform accounting for 11.7% of all new subscribers in the last three months of 2022 - down from 19.3% in the same period a year earlier.
There have been a string of television adverts trailing ahead to the Globes, while billboards around Los Angeles proclaim "Hollywood's biggest party is back". But that will only be the case if Hollywood actually shows up.
The latter two are also nominees - Curtis for best supporting actress for her performance in Everything Everywhere All At Once, and de Armas for best leading drama actress for her portrayal of Marilyn Monroe in Blonde.
Brendan Fraser, who is nominated for best actor for The Whale, has said he will not attend the ceremony after accusing former HFPA president Philip Berk of groping him in 2003.
He is not nominated for best actor, but his film Top Gun: Maverick was one of the biggest movies of last year and is nominated for best drama picture.
Scarlett Johansson previously encouraged others in the film industry to "step back" from the organisation, while her Avengers co-star Mark Ruffalo wrote last year that the HFPA's reforms were "discouraging".
However, a tweet from the official Globes account on Tuesday suggested Brad Pitt, Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez, MJ Rodriguez, Jennifer Coolidge, Jenna Ortega and Rihanna will be attending the ceremony.
Taking place in early January, most celebrities are usually on good form at the Globes, thanks to the Christmas break they've just enjoyed, coupled with plenty of complimentary drinks.
Baz Luhrmann's Elvis Presley biopic, Guillermo del Toro's stop-motion animation Pinocchio, and Todd Field's excellent drama Tár, starring Cate Blanchett as a disgraced orchestra conductor, all have three.
On the television side, school-based comedy Abbott Elementary leads with five nominations, while there are four apiece for The Crown, Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story, Only Murders in the Building, Pam & Tommy and The White Lotus.
While a win at the Globes is not a guarantee of Oscars success, it can often be helpful in raising the profile of a film or actor and give them a momentum boost.
The gap has piqued interest in Khan and also led to a heightened scrutiny of the film, which also stars Deepika Padukone, one of India's most popular stars, and John Abraham.
"If you dare to party at Pathaan's house, then I will have to come to greet you - with fireworks," an unmistakable voice sneers at us, as Khan makes an appearance.
A suave spy with tousled hair and chiselled biceps and abs, Khan effortlessly takes down enemies, hops on moving vehicles, rappels down skyscrapers and seduces women while trying to save his nation from evil forces, led by Abraham.
Over the years, he points out, the actor has experimented with scripts, playing different types of roles, such as the ones in My Name is Khan, Chak de India and Love You Zindagi.
The 33-year-old said she was lucky to be able to afford the cost of her subscription and thought the move Netflix was"a desperate bid to attract more people" that would end up hurting the brand.
But a recent global survey by the Simon Kucher consultancy found that more than a third of streaming customers were likely to cancel a subscription with the next 12 months, especially in markets such as China, India and the US.
"Netflix is making its move into ad supported streaming at exactly the right time and we expect uptake to be fast and significant, as consumers battle to take control over their expenses," he said.
But analysts at Enders Analysis said they did not think many of the company's current viewers would find the savings worth switching for, nor was it likely to draw in large numbers of new subscribers.
"We find it bizarre that some have opined that there will be a material quantity of Netflix subscribers that will actively pursue ad-supported video to save a couple of pounds a month," the firm wrote in a recent note.
Indian Matchmaking - the "cringeworthy" Netflix show that created a huge buzz in India and many parts of the globe two years ago - is back with a second season.
Here, everything happens for a reason - and that is to find a bride or a groom because, as Ms Taparia explains at the outset, "first is marriage, then love" and "everything gets adjusted after marriage".
The new season includes some of her old clients from season one and a number of new faces, hoping that Ms Taparia, who claims to be "Mumbai's top matchmaker", will help them find "The One".
To many, the faith these rich and successful millennials put in the matchmaker - popularly known as "Sima aunty" - may seem questionable, considering none of her matches from the previous season worked out.
In the new season, the matchmaker's edges are softened a bit and she seems to be holding her tongue sometimes - possibly because of the backlash - but the show is still riddled with sexism and gender biases.
So Akshay, a male client who calls himself the "world's most eligible bachelor", is allowed to call women "chicks" and the female clients are routinely told to temper their expectations.
It was also among the top 10 in 13 countries, including in the US, Canada and South Africa, in the first week of its release and remained on the list in seven countries for another week.
Film and trade analyst Komal Nahata says the interest in the show is because season one was "a huge and roaring success - not just among Indians but also in the US and several other countries".
"Because of the growing number of divorces, relatives - or even parents - do not want to get involved, so that they don't get blamed if a marriage doesn't work out.
"What I found most odd was that all these women in the US - who are educated and independent and are free to marry whoever they want to - still seek out someone like Ms Taparia.
It's especially absurd, she says, in a country where thousands of brides are killed every year over insufficient dowry, marital rape is not criminalised and thousands of housewives are driven to suicide every year.
"I want to ask Netflix why are you putting your money into a show that propagates mass misogyny? Why not have a show on single women?" she asks, adding that "marriage is not the benchmark for our lives."
That's how Zeenat Aman, who captivated Indians in the 1970s with her trailblazing style and unconventional Bollywood roles, described herself on Instagram earlier this month, when she made her debut there.
The 71-year-old has only posted about a dozen times so far - mostly photos of herself with musings on ageing, her eventful career and her pet dog Lily - but her presence has captured people's attention and imagination.
Wearing comfortable linen overalls and perched on a stool near a patch of sunlight, Aman ruminated in her caption about how dominant the male gaze was in films and fashion during the 1970s.
But the most remarkable part about her Instagram debut is that an actor whose most memorable performances occurred four decades ago has managed to connect with a much younger audience almost instantly.
That same year, she catapulted to dizzying fame with her performance in the hit film Hare Rama Hare Krishna, where she played a naïve, young flower child who is a drug addict.
Her most controversial role was in 1978 - Satyam Shivam Sundaram sparked a flurry of controversies because of the scanty outfits worn by Aman's character Roopa and an intimate scene between her and the actor Shashi Kapoor.
"I was always quite amused by the accusations of obscenity as I did not and do not find anything obscene about the human body... Rupa's sensuality was not the crux of the plot, but a part of it," she wrote.
On Instagram, the actor is charming and exudes an air of naturalness as she reminisces about her youth and stardom, not through a lens of regret, but simply from the vantage point of being older.
"We believe we are on a path to a profitable streaming business, assuming that we do not see a meaningful shift in the economic climate," he said on a conference call to discuss the firm's results.
Disney has poured billions of dollars into its streaming platforms in recent years, remaking itself from a company rooted in traditional television and movies into one of the streaming industry's major players.
"I'm so pleased to announce that we have sequels in the works from our animation studios to some of our most popular franchises: Toy Story, Frozen and Zootopia," he said.
The announced job cuts amount to around 3.6% of Disney's workforce around the world and are part of a plan to save $5.5bn (£4.5bn) and make its Disney+ streaming service profitable.
And while the film did much much better on Disney+, it's likely that it was watched and enjoyed more by existing subscribers, rather than encouraging new viewers to join the service.
Freddy Colquhoun, investment director at JM Finn, told the BBC: "Disney has been in quite a bit of trouble over the last year or so and in particular with trying to make its streaming business profitable."
At the time he said he had tasked a group of executives with designing "a new structure that puts more decision-making back in the hands of our creative teams and rationalises costs".
But ever since the show revealed the names of the housemates, hundreds of people, many of them women, have taken to social media to express their "disgust" and "anger" at his inclusion.
The protest is also because of the reach of Bigg Boss - it is considered to be India's most popular reality show, racking up tens of billions of hours of viewing time.
In India where there is deep-seated patriarchy, Ms Chauhan says that women already have an uphill battle and this sends out a message to those who made the allegations against him that they are being totally unseen and unheard.
The allegations against Khan came in 2018 - after the MeToo movement started in the US, many women in India took to Twitter to call out comedians, journalists, authors, actors and filmmakers.
But his return to the limelight obviously hasn't gone to plan - the outrage over the allegations against him have meant that many are still unwilling to give him a second chance.
The kiss - from the 1933 film Karma - featuring real-life couple Devika Rani and Himanshu Rai - has long been written about as the first-ever Bollywood film to have a lip lock and "Bollywood's longest kiss ever".
The press at the time reported that the kiss was more than four minutes long, and the couple exchanging it on screen have been the subject of much myth-making in India ever since.
Rai and Rani went on to set up Bombay Talkies, India's first professional film studio, in 1934 which dominated the first decade of talking cinema in India and set trends, many of which are still followed to this day.
A 2020 book, which recently received the National Film Award for Best Book on Indian Cinema from the country's president, tries to set the record straight on the kiss and the tumultuous lives of the couple.
Described as "a love drama", the 63-minute film was directed by British filmmaker JL Freer Hunt and boasted that it "featured actual royal palaces and scenes of oriental splendour".
The kiss takes place almost at the end of the film as the desperate princess kisses the prince in a bid to revive him as he lays unconscious, bitten by a cobra.
And the kiss was not a selling point of the film at the time, she says, adding that "it became a popular myth much later, most likely created by the press".
But, she adds, the intention behind making this film was not its popularity but to use it "as a showpiece to tell the world that they could make cinema for the world stage from Bombay".
After Rai suffered a nervous breakdown and died in 1940, Devika Rani ran the studio as a producer, giving breaks to legendary actors such as Madhubala and Dilip Kumar, and delivering many superhit films.
Some have critiqued the film's plot - calling it over the top and silly - but others said that Khan had managed to revive his magic on the silver screen.
Ms Gupta said it was a dazzling affair of "non-stop action, leavened by glamorous leads, topped by the guy who can save the world, a high-octane set piece and an emo line at a time".
Film critic Deepanjana Pal, who writes for the website FilmCompanion, called Pathaan "a hero for today's India" who brings familiar gestures to the role but in new and different ways.
Film critic Nandini Ramnath said there were moments when "the narrative slumps, when the stunts feel too familiar or derivative, when the thrills look like they are in danger of running out".
Spotify, Apple Music and Deezer all said the track was their top performer of the year, beating competition from Ed Sheeran, Drake and Taylor Swift.
Spotify listeners showed a huge appetite for UK rap, with releases by Dave, Aitch and D-Block Europe all performing well.
However, he could not replicate that success in the UK, where audiences still seem averse to music sung in languages other than English.
The Official Charts will reveal the overall biggest songs of the year - tallying streams, downloads and physical sales - in January.
The statistics come as the streaming services release their end-of-year recaps - which provide users with a customised deep dive into their listening statistics.
Fans will also be given a "listening personality" - that analyses their habits in categories such as "exploration vs familiarity" or "variety vs loyalty".
"It's always interesting to see who wants to share and who doesn't want to share," said Tom Connaughton, MD of Spotify for the UK.
"If you go and stand by our music team, they're the least likely to want to show you [their results] because they're scared of what it says about them."
Apple has also revamped its Replay feature, telling users how many individual songs and artists they played over the year, and preparing a playlist of their most-played songs.
It also produces a shareable list of your Top 10 artists, along with the number of minutes you spent listening/dancing/driving/studying/falling asleep to their music.
Analysts Kantar said the number of paid-for video streaming subscriptions in the UK fell by two million, from 30.5 million to 28.5 million.
"That financial pressure increasingly meant cutting back on video streaming subscriptions, particularly where households often had three or more different services in the same household."
Gregory Bortkiewicz, 36, and his partner Tanya Kant, 37, from Brighton subscribed to Netflix a decade ago and chose to cancel their subscription last summer.
"I always found myself flicking though it and not finding good content so me and my partner decided we should cancel it," Greg, a consultant, told the BBC.
He said he does not regret it as "there are so many other options and it got to the point where the little amount we were paying, adds up".
Kantar said the UK streaming market returned to growth in the last three months of the year, with new subscriptions up by 300,000 compared with the previous quarter.
Last summer Netflix, the world's biggest video streaming company, said it had lost almost a million subscribers between April and July worldwide after it put up prices.
But in the last three months of 2022, the Californian company reported gaining seven million, taking the total number of signed-up viewers to 231 million.
The firm has launched a cheaper service with adverts in 12 countries, including the UK, which it plans to roll out more widely.
In November, the media giant said it had added more than 12 million subscribers globally to its Disney+ streaming platform in the three months ending in September.
The organisation behind the ceremony hopes to restore the status of the Globes, as well as its own reputation, after a controversial two years.
The Banshees of Inisherin and Everything Everywhere All At Once lead the 2023 nominations at the film and TV awards, followed by Babylon and The Fabelmans.
The newspaper's investigation also alleged the group often accepted "freebies" from studios and PR agencies who were campaigning for nominations, along with other ethical failings.
The expose led NBC to cancel its broadcast of the 2022 ceremony, which ended up taking place behind closed doors with few stars in attendance.
Meanwhile, the HFPA announced a series of reforms, such as expanding and diversifying the membership, and a ban on accepting promotional items from film and TV studios.
All eyes will now be on Tuesday's ceremony at the Beverly Hilton hotel to see whether the Globes have been let out of Hollywood's dog house.
We know four stars who will definitely be there - director Quentin Tarantino and actors Billy Porter, Jamie Lee Curtis and Ana de Armas.
The HFPA found that Mr Berk "inappropriately touched" Fraser, but that it "was intended to be taken as a joke and not as a sexual advance".
In 2022, he won an Emmy for writing his stand-up special Rothaniel and was nominated for guest hosting Saturday Night Live that same year.
"Traditionally, it was always considered the most fun [of the awards] to be at," Gervais told the Telegraph earlier this week.
The Banshees of Inisherin, a dark comedy starring Colin Farrell and Brendan Gleeson, leads the pack at the Globes with eight nominations.
Rachel Zegler, Kodi Smit-McPhee, Ariana DeBose, Emma Corrin, Richard Madden, Awkwafina and Taron Egerton have all won trophies when their stars were on the ascent.
But there are also titans of the big screen in contention for major prizes - such as Cate Blanchett, Olivia Colman and Daniel Craig.
Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's latest film Pathaan, which releases on Wednesday, has been hitting the headlines in India for the past several weeks.
Charming, funny and with millions of fans at home and abroad, the actor is often described as Bollywood's "most important cultural export", whose popularity travels beyond his films.
Starting in December when the filmmakers began releasing promotional videos of Pathaan's songs, the film has been the subject of incessant chatter on social media.
Khan's tweet of the Hindi trailer has had 3.9 million views and an additional half a million each for the Telugu and Tamil versions.
A fan called it a "paisa vasool [value for money] experience", adding that he would try to catch the film as soon as it released.
But ever since his comments about growing religious intolerance in India a few years back, the barrage of attacks from Hindu right-wing groups have become more personal and concerted.
"It has acquired a distinctly communal twinge, as they seek to anchor the actor's image around his religious identity," says author and film critic Saibal Chatterjee.
Until a few years back, he says, Bollywood was seen as a place that existed beyond religious and political differences and "entertainment was the only thing that mattered".
They accused Khan of insulting Hindus as saffron is a colour associated with their religion, even though Padukone changes costumes several times during the song.
But as the countdown to Pathaan's release begins, Khan and the filmmakers have skirted around the controversies, instead concentrating on the film's promotion.
And earlier this month, Khan visited Dubai where a large crowd of cheering fans watched Pathaan's trailer, projected on the façade of Burj Khalifa.
From the actor's reputation to the film's 2.5bn rupee ($30m; £25m)-budget, a lot is at stake and some have wondered if the negative publicity could impact the film's success.
"Khan is not just an actor, he is a brand, probably the biggest we've had in the country, and most certainly in Bollywood," he says.
Shrayana Bhattacharya, author of a book called Desperately Seeking Shah Rukh Khan, says the star's fans will "never reduce him to religion or political calculations".
But some are wondering if the spy-thriller genre is the right kind for Khan's return to the big screen after a four-year gap?
Khan made his name playing a romantic hero, an actor who defined love - its language, fickleness and the anxieties that come with it - for an entire generation.
And women, who make up a large part of his fan base, may not be interest in seeing him as an action hero.
A few days back, the actor said he always wanted to be an action hero and that's why Pathaan "is a dream come true for me".
"But at this point in his career, he can afford to do that. He is fearless and he is experimenting. He has nothing to lose."
People settling in to their sofas for a bit of Netflix now have a new option  - to pay less for their favourite shows but watch with adverts.
It is charging £4.99 a month in the UK, and $6.99 in the US for the new plan - a roughly 30% discount to the firm's cheapest ad-free option.
At Netflix, the number of subscribers fell by more than 1 million in the first half of the year, as the company pushed through its latest round of price hikes.
That's a tiny fraction of its roughly 220 million global accounts, and the company made up for those losses over the three months to September.
But while Netflix once distinguished itself by being commercial free, surveys by Kantar and others suggest that acceptance of adverts among audiences is growing.
For now, both aged 20, said they weren't directly concerned with the expense of Netflix, since they watch on someone else's account.
With Netflix warning of plans to crack down on password sharing, they said the new option could be "good for students".
Among non-subscribers, however, a survey in the US by DISQO found only 25% to 35% were interested in signing up for a service with ads.
But forecasting analyst Peter Newman cautioned that the new plan will draw most of its sign-ups from Netflix's existing audience, rather than expanding the pool of viewers.
It has once again renewed the debate about whether the show is regressive or if it holds up a mirror to society.
Despite its immense popularity, season one was called out for in-your-face misogyny, casteism and colourism and caused much outrage, with many describing it as regressive.
There are no lower castes or religious minorities, except for one Sikh, and I can't remember seeing anyone who has darker skin colour."
Despite the criticism, the series was among the top five shows in India for two weeks since its launch on 10 August.
"For people in the West, where most go to Tinder and Bumble and other websites to find matches, the show had shock value.
This type of matchmaking that we have in India is very unique and Westerners couldn't believe that it actually happens like this," he told the BBC.
In India too - where 90% of all marriages are still arranged - there's growing interest in professional matchmaking, at least in cities and towns.
"It made me sad to think that all these women have learnt nothing from living all these years in America," she adds.
In an interview with Variety last week, Smriti Mundhra, the show's creator, agreed that "some of the show is cringey".
Her first couple of posts were photos shot of her by a young woman photographer in the "comfort of [her] home".
The post has since been shared thousands of times across social media platforms, with Aman being praised for sparking a meaningful conversation in the simplest of ways.
She was already a successful model when she started her career in Bollywood in 1971 with small role in a film called Hulchul.
From blowing smoke rings in crowded, dingy rooms to dancing in scanty tie-dye dresses with hippies, Aman - and the film - transformed women's fashion in the film industry.
She was not a traditional Bollywood heroine - her unconventional beauty, bold fashion choices and outspoken ways stood out too much.
"Gradually even I got absorbed into the mainstream but towards the second half of my career I did films that had different roles."
In one of her Instagram posts, Aman revisited the controversy as she shared a photograph of herself taken during a camera test for the film.
She had a magnetic screen presence, but it was the self-assurance with which she conducted her life - including traumatic personal experiences - that made her even more popular.
It was only once I contemplated upon my own hesitations that I realised I really don't care to buttress our society's idolisation of youth," she wrote.
The actor also includes light personal anecdotes - last week, she said she learnt the meaning of the word "thirst-trap" from her sons.
As one Twitter user said: "Zeenat Aman joining Instagram is one of the best things that has happened on the internet in recent times."
The media giant said it had added more than 12 million subscribers to its Disney+ streaming platform in the three months ended in September.
The company now counts more than 235 million subscriptions across its three streaming platforms, which also include the sports-focused ESPN+ and wider enterainment site Hulu.
As it turns its focus to profitability, Disney has announced plans to raise prices and introduce a version of Disney+ with adverts.
Overall the company said revenues rose 9% in the three months ended in September, and were up 23% for its financial year.
The firm was also hurt by weakness in its traditional movie and television business, which saw declines in advertising, and rising costs cut into its profits.
Paolo Pescatore, an analyst at PP Foresight, said it was a "disappointing quarter" that "underlines the challenges a media giant faces in pivoting towards a streaming future".
Disney chief executive Bob Iger has announced sequels for Toy Story, Frozen and Zootopia as he detailed plans to turn around its streaming business.
"We'll have more to share about this production soon, but this is a great example of how we're leaning into our unrivalled brands and franchises."
The plan will see the company restructure into three segments - entertainment which will include film, TV and streaming; sports-focused ESPN and Disney parks, experiences and products.
"This reorganisation will result in a more cost-effective, co-ordinated approach to our operations," Mr Iger told analysts on a conference call.
One of Bob Iger's key strategies in his previous stint running Disney was to maximise the use of popular properties in its existing back catalogue.
The last instalments of Toy Story and Frozen both took more than $1bn at the global box office, as did Zootopia (Zootropolis in the UK).
No doubt it hopes that as well as performing well at the traditional box office, well-known titles like this will also help to drive increasing numbers to Disney+.
Disney's changes address some of the criticisms raised in recent months by billionaire activist investor Nelson Peltz, who criticised the company for overspending on its streaming business.
In an interview on Thursday with the business broadcaster CNBC Mr Peltz said he would no longer seek a seat on the board to push for change.
He was brought back to steer the company through turbulent times after its share price plummeted and Disney+ continued to make a loss.
Mr Iger, who had previously headed Disney for 15 years, replaced Bob Chapek, who took over as chief executive in February 2020.
Bigg Boss, the wildly popular Indian version of Big Brother, has been mired in an ugly row since it  premiered on Colors TV on Saturday.
The 16th season of the show, hosted by Bollywood superstar Salman Khan, has been criticised for including film director Sajid Khan as a housemate.
Singer Sona Mohapatra said Indian TV channels were a "depraved and a sad lot" for including men called out for sexual harassment.
Since Saturday, ColorsTV and the show's official Twitter account have put out several hundred promotional tweets, but they are yet to respond to the criticism.
Its popularity has gone up many times since 2020 when it was made available on Voot - an Indian digital streaming service.
So calls have been growing to drop Khan from the show - a petition to banish him from the Bigg Boss house has already received more than 5,000 signatures.
Khan's inclusion in the show, she says, alongside one of India's biggest heroes like Salman Khan, will provide him with an opportunity to "whitewash his image" in public.
Khan, a successful director who had worked with some of Bollywood's biggest stars, was among those named by mostly aspiring actresses and a female journalist.
It was packed with clichés the West liked - the Indian royalty, a tiger hunt, mating cobras and a snake charmer.
Public displays of affection on and off screen have been largely taboo in India for decades - though cinematic depictions have got bolder in recent years.
In another incident a couple of years later, a young married couple in Delhi were charged with obscenity for kissing in public.
"The actress singing in an operatic style was not really meant for the Indian masses who didn't like it much," Ms Desai says.
This, she says, was necessary as the prospective investors were British or members of the affluent Parsi community who were very Western in their outlook.
The great-niece of Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, she had been schooled in England from the age of nine and "was cast in the Western mould and was cosmopolitan".
One newspaper wrote that "it would be difficult to find anyone lovelier than her" while another raved about "her lovely features and lustrous eyes and graceful movements".
The film catapulted the actress into a league of her own, turning her into "India's only internationally-renowned star, who was being wooed by Hollywood and European cinema".
Her relationship with Rai also soured when she discovered that he was married before and had a daughter," Ms Desai says.
The outbreak of World War Two severely impacted the Bombay Talkies as its entire German staff was detained and put in camps by India's British rulers.
But in 1945, she sold her shares, married Svetoslav Roerich and moved to the Himalayan state of Himachal Pradesh, and eventually relocated to Bangalore.
Bombay Talkies, however, didn't survive long once Rani left - "it limped along for a few years before folding up in 1954", she adds.
The film tells the exhilarating tale of Pathaan, a suave Indian spy played by Khan, who is on a mission to stop a group of terrorists from attacking India.
And on Wednesday, Khan tweeted that 25 single screen theatres had re-opened in northern Indian to screen the film, after they were shut down during the Covid-19 outbreak.
Ticketing platform BookMyShow told news agency PTI that the audience response had been "phenomenal" with over one million tickets booked by Monday itself.
"The romantic hero is gone, replaced by an older, scruffier man who is determined to fulfil the responsibilities placed up him by his circumstances," she wrote.
Uday Bhatia, while reviewing the film for Mint Lounge newspaper, said it was a "maximalist fun, spy actioner that piles spectacle on silly spectacle".
That would have earned the star and his co-writers about £1.5m in royalties.
Kate Bush: "The world's gone mad"
"Thanks to everyone that supported us in 2022 - Big Love."
It said that Prime Video, AppleTV+ and Paramount+ had driven the gains.
New subscriber growth also slowed at Now TV and Britbox, it said.es.
But some will be notable by their absence.
Another big star almost certain to skip the ceremony is Tom Cruise.
This year, US comedian Jerrod Carmichael will take on hosting duties.
"Of course, what's better for the audience isn't always great for the performer.
As audiences get drunker, you have to work harder to get their attention.
The Golden Globes are also particularly good at recognising new talent.
And Pathaan is his first film after a four-year hiatus.
And when its trailer dropped on 10 January, the fan frenzy peaked.
It has been watched more than 51 million times on YouTube.
The authorities scramble to fight them, but time is running out.
At stake is the country's future.
So, they put their best man to work.
A pulsing music track accompanies the shots.
But right from the start, Pathaan has been mired in controversies.
But, he adds, the industry has now become increasingly polarised.
That's why they cannot stand him."
It's an assessment Chatterjee disagrees with.
With Pathaan, he says, Khan is clearly "breaking the mould".
So will people go for it?
But streaming audiences are clearly getting restive.
Many of Netflix's competitors already combine streaming with adverts or have plans to.
That plan will start at $7.99 a month.
"An ad-supported tier isn't going to reverse Netflix's fortunes overnight," he said.
Additional reporting by Charlotte McDonald
"They are all rich, upper-caste and fair-skinned people.
Thousands have taken to social media to share their impressions of the show.
So, matchmakers have proliferated, they are everywhere."
"Indians have a national obsession with marriage, and it's a very unhealthy obsession.
A woman's gaze though, is different...
No lights, no makeup artist, no hairdresser, no stylist, no assistants.
Just a lovely sunny afternoon together," she wrote.
Zeenat Aman showed us how."
But audiences loved her.
She was also very self-aware.
She truly did.
But her penchant for starting conversations is unchanged.
Being young, she adds, is wonderful.
But so is being old.
"I just love how frill-free and real she is," says another.
And it's not all weighty reflections.
And fans, young and old, loved every bit of her innocence.
Netflix, by comparison, has about 223 million subscribers.
It reported profits of $162m, up from $159m last year.
Mr Iger said he did "not make this decision lightly".
Profit also rose by 11% to $1.3bn.
The company's streaming service remained its top priority, he added.
Its first big post-Covid release Strange World was a box office failure.
So it's no huge surprise to see these sequels being announced.
But he said the results "were actually really reassuring" and beat expectations.
"This was a great win for all the shareholders.
Bob Iger says he's proud of his achievements at Disney
"This is sickening, and this is vile.
"So, we are asking ColorsTV to not give him that platform.
"An industry known for abuse could take a better stand.
In fact, as a country we could take a better stand," she adds.
The BBC has emailed them for comment.
"It's said that failure destroys people.
But in my case, it was success that destroyed me," he said.
Apparently, neither is true.
"The kiss is obviously not the longest ever in a Bollywood film.
If you time it, it couldn't probably cross two minutes."
Protesters burned effigies of the actor, claiming that he had insulted Indian culture.
The film though was a flop.
And that's where Rani's presence helped.
But her relationship with Rai soon began to unravel.
"She was working very hard and was not credited enough.
There was significant Hollywood fallout to a scathing exposé of the HFPA published in the LA Times in February 2021, which found there were no black members in the 87-strong voting body, and that relatively few members worked full-time for notable foreign publications.
Normally, an acerbic host such as Ricky Gervais, Seth Myers or the pairing of Tina Fey and Amy Poehler would make fun of the A-listers in the audience and Hollywood in general, in a way that would not happen at the more formal Oscars.
The 57-year-old is making a comeback on the big screen after a series of setbacks in his personal and professional life, including the arrest of his son Aryan Khan last year on fake charges of drug possession - the charges were eventually dropped - and a number of films that didn't do well.
Already riled by the film's name Pathaan - a Muslim title - the hardline Hindu groups raked up a controversy over one of its songs after Padukone was seen in a saffron-coloured bikini in the song Besharam Rang - which translates from Hindi to shameless colour.
There have been calls to ban the film unless the song is removed, protesters have torn up posters and burnt Khan's effigies, a petition has been filed in a court accusing the cast of hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community and the film has been accused of promoting nudity and obscenity.
During the Fifa World Cup, footballer Wayne Rooney appeared along with the actor in a short promotional video, repeating after Khan in Hindi - "Apni kursi ki peti bandh lo, Mausam bigadne wala hai [Fasten your seatbelts, the weather is about to get turbulent]".
"If they are going to be offering ads, it feels like less of a premium service that people will be happy to continue paying for," she said, adding that clogging shows and movies up with commercials would make Netflix "just another YouTube".
With concerns about the cost of living rising, Netflix with ads has a chance of helping it hold on to its audience, said Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at Kantar World Panel, which has found that for many of the households in the UK, quitting Netflix means dropping out of streaming altogether.
"This goes against Netflix's (extremely) effective conditioning of its subscription base to see advertising as the ultimate annoyance and expect nothing less than the cleanest and least intrusive video viewing experience possible—a strategy that has worked to the expense of every other competing and trailing service."
There was a "flurry" of interest from advertisers after Netflix announced the service, though some brands became "more reticent" when they found out how much the advertising would cost, said Liz Duff, head of commercial and operations for Total Media, which buys advertising slots for big household name brands,
The eight-part reality TV show - included in the list of the 50 most influential reality TV shows of all time by Time magazine - once again follows elite Indian matchmaker Sima Taparia as she tries to find suitable matches for her wealthy clients in India and the US.
The show has also made headlines in India over Ms Taparia's controversial comment on age difference - she tells a female client that her relationship with a man who is seven years younger is not a good match, "just like that of Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas".
Ms Bajpayee says that people go to matchmakers "because it's not easy to find a match, and sometimes you need a bit of help", but adds that there are a lot of problems with the show as "it's still not critiquing regressive ideas" and "just propagates known biases".
But Sreemoyee Piu Kundu, author and founder of Status Single, India's first and only community for urban single women, questions the rationale behind promoting a show on weddings in India "where women are judged all the time for not getting married".
From Sheetal in Roti Kapda aur Makaan (1974), who chooses a suave, rich man over her unemployed boyfriend, to Bharti, a rape survivor on a quest for justice in Insaf Ka Tarasu (1980), Aman constantly pushed the boundaries of cinema and also inspired many women to do the same in their lives.
"At a time when technology and Instagram filters are rewriting our bodies and faces, Aman - with her gorgeous silver bob and soft wrinkles - is sparking a more honest assessment of what it means to be a woman," says one fan.
Announcing them all at the same time (although we don't know when they're likely to be released) is a clear signal to shareholders and audiences that at a time when Disney is cutting jobs and looking to make savings, it will continue to pour resources into areas that have served it well in the past.
Journalist Barkha Dutt tweeted that Khan's inclusion showed "utter contempt for what so many women feel" and MeTooIndia - an unofficial account created by a journalist after the 2018 movement to amplify the voices of Indian survivors - wondered why the organisers were silent.
Sukriti Chauhan, lawyer and public health advocate and a co-author of the petition, told the BBC that the allegations against the director were "quite disturbing, graphic and horrific" and giving him a prime-time slot on one of India's most popular shows was "not right".
"In the wake of the allegations against me and the pressure being put on my family, my producer [and] the stars of my film Houseful4, I must take the moral responsibility of stepping down from my directorial post, till the time I can allay the allegations and prove the truth… I request my friends in the media to kindly not pass judgement till the truth is out."
At Saturday's premier, he acknowledged the allegations against him - he said he had been sitting at home for the past four years because he did not get much work, but blamed his downfall on his "arrogance", saying that after a number of his films became hits, he started to believe that he was infallible.
The trade body for UK airlines said the sector was committed to the 2050 target and that sustainable fuels would be a key factor in reaching it.
Demand for flights is expected to increase, and governments and the aviation industry are experimenting with ways to reduce the climate impacts of traditional kerosene fuel.
The authors of the Royal Society report looked at four options for greener fuels to replace the 12.3m tonnes of jet fuel used annually in the UK.
A new fuel needs to be financially viable, safe, usable around the world, and to have high enough energy density to be used on long-distance flights, they say.
The trade body for UK airlines, Airlines UK, said in response that sustainable fuels were safe and increasingly commonplace, and that the sector was committed to the 2050 'jet zero' target.
"A Frequent Flyer Levy would target reduced demand amongst the group responsible for most of the environmental damage today, while leaving the annual family holiday untouched," he says.
It found textiles were just 4% of what was binned in 2021, in terms of weight, but accounted for 32% of the carbon footprint generated by household waste.
Zero Waste Scotland said that the clothing we buy is often produced via long supply chains which generate large volumes of greenhouse gas emissions at every stage.
The idea is to help people - particularly families with children - reuse clothes and cut down on global emissions as well as the fashion industry's impact on global communities.
Ms Eriksen says the shop has been designed to recreate a typical shopping experience, although admits items can be more expensive than the cheapest clothes sold on the high street.
She said: "Lots of people buy second hand already and it's part of the choices they make as consumers, but for a lot of others, they wouldn't choose to do that.
"If we can see enough of that clothing continuing to circulate at that high level, then we're reducing the demand on the planet and on our global communities as well."
Food waste was the second highest contributor to the carbon impact of household waste - making up 30% of greenhouse gas emissions, but only 18% of household waste by weight.
Iain Gulland, chief executive of Zero Waste Scotland, said: "If we're serious about tackling climate change we need to rethink our consumption of goods and materials.
The Scottish government funded agency is encouraging Scots to "do things differently" and look to the circular economy model - where people are encouraged to reuse, donate and recycle products.
Emissions from producing and making the raw materials for our textiles is equal to about two and a half times the greenhouse gases emitted from our international aviation and shipping in 2020.
The minister in charge, Green MSP Lorna Slater, said the move would give businesses "the clarity and confidence they need" to take part in the system.
The deposit return scheme (DRS) aims to improve recycling rates for certain bottles and cans by providing a financial incentive to recycle and pick up litter.
The customer can get that money back when they take the empty container to a return point, either over-the-counter at a shop or using an automated reverse vending machine.
Producers have until the end of the month to register for the scheme, which will require them to declare how many items they intend to put on the Scottish market.
Many small businesses have warned that while they support the general sentiments, the scheme will impose unacceptable costs and other strains while they are still recovering from the Covid pandemic.
In particular they are worried about cashflow impact of paying deposits and administrative fees in advance, as well as pressure to produce special barcodes on products destined for the Scottish market.
Producers have to pay the 20p deposit, as well as a small fee, to the scheme's administrator for every item they produce that is destined for sale in Scotland.
They can recoup the 20p by adding it to cost of their products when they sell it to  wholesalers - who in turn pass it on to retailers.
The Scottish Conservatives - who have called for the scheme to be paused - claimed the "last-minute" changes were an acknowledgment that its design was flawed.
MSP Maurice Golden said: "This sudden discovery of £22m just days before the deadline for firms to register is not enough to make it fit for purpose in its current form.
It also does not add to the growing problem of e-waste once it reaches the end of its life in the way that solar panels and batteries currently do.
Prof Di Lorenzo said: "The principle is that hydrocarbons are digested by the organisms in the soil into less or totally non-harmful components and in doing so they release electrons."
She added: "Once again we generate electricity with that and in this way we achieve two things - we purify contaminated soil and you generate electricity at the same time."
It could prove transformative for places like the Niger Delta in southern Nigeria, which repeated oil spills have turned into one of the most polluted landscapes on earth.
"The technology is extremely low-cost and it could be a solution to areas like Nigeria that don't necessarily have access to really expensive treatments," Prof Di Lorenzo said.
"Also the amount of energy can be used to make the overall process self-powered and self-sustaining, or maybe to power some devices such as sensors placed there to monitor the progress of the treatment."
"SMFCs only generate a tiny amount of electricity but together with other renewable technologies hopefully they can help us to phase out fossil fuels," Prof Di Lorenzo said.
To meet the UK's climate change targets, the government wants to install 600,000 low-carbon heat pumps annually within five years - currently only 50,000 are installed annually.
Heat pumps use electricity to run and are three times more efficient than a gas boiler, so as we switch to renewable electricity homes will be cheaper to heat and produce less emissions.
The government's own research from Autumn 2022 shows 80% of people in the UK did not know what a heat pump was, let alone were aware of the scheme.
A government spokesperson told the BBC: "We've recently launched a marketing campaign to further increase public awareness and will consider options to ensure our targets are met."
John Taylor, 71, another recipient of the BUS voucher, also said the government needed to make it clearer which installers to use: "I searched online and found cowboys out there.
The committee said the government is funding some training places for installers but needed to give more certainty to engineers that it is worth investing their time in getting retrained.
He said that model was not new and was already being used in Scotland, where they also offer a free energy advice service to help households navigate installing a new heating system.
Countries like France and Germany have also pledged twice as much money to their low carbon heating schemes and offer larger grants for low-income households up to £9,700 to make heat pumps more affordable.
The UK government wants a new power station where carbon dioxide is captured and stored under the North Sea - either in old oil and gas reservoirs, or permeable rocks known as saline aquifers.
Carbon capture power stations are seen as part of the solution, along with the increased use of nuclear energy, and other rapidly-evolving technologies such as hydrogen.
The other largest sectors - transport, residential, energy supply, business, and land use, land use change and forestry - have shown a decrease in that time.
The report said the downward trend was mainly driven by the energy supply sector, as electricity generation moves away from using fossil fuels and switches to using more gas and renewable generation.
They are projected to decrease by 8% from 2020 to 2031, largely driven by the expected increase in electric vehicles and changes in carbon dioxide regulations for vehicles.
Michael Benfield, who helped set up the new political movement in the 1970s, said he believed the "battle for the world's environmental survival" was "at this moment, lost".
Speaking at an event to mark the party's 50th anniversary, Mr Benfield told the BBC he had become "somewhat of a doomsayer" about efforts to protect the environment.
"It doesn't mean to say that we can't perhaps do other things to put things right, but it's a very dire situation that we have," Mr Benfield said.
The group was formed in a Coventry pub by Mr Benfield, fellow estate agent Freda Sanders and solicitors Lesley Whittaker and her late husband Tony.
The three surviving founders of what would turn out to be Europe's first green political party were among those who gathered at the London School of Economics to mark the milestone.
"I think that's the vital space the party occupies today, which is both that vision for a hopeful future and tangible real-life examples of where we're making change," he said.
AK Saseendran, wildlife minister in Kerala, was reported as saying that his government may consider solutions including sterilisation or culling to check tiger numbers in the state.
By then, his comments had set off a discussion on wildlife conservation, with several experts expressing outrage and pointing out that culling was a "legally untenable" suggestion.
A federal wildlife protection law, implemented in 1972, makes it virtually illegal to kill or capture tigers - designated India's national animal - even when they are involved in such conflicts.
But the minister told the BBC that the suggestion on culling came from locals who had attended a meeting with all the political parties to discuss a way out.
Dr Ullas Karanth, a conservationist and tiger expert, told the BBC that over the past 50 years, the population of tigers had only increased by a thousand, far less than capacity.
Praveen Bhargav, a former member of the National Board for Wildlife, said that a recently amended section of the national Wildlife Act does not permit declaration of tigers "as vermin".
But the suggestion to cull tigers found some support from reputed environmentalist Madhav Gadgil, who told The New Indian Express newspaper that India should allow "rational hunting" of animals to check their numbers.
Hampshire Constabulary said the bird initially tested positive for avian influenza and also had rodenticides in its system, but neither factor was found to have caused its death.
A police investigation into another sea eagle found dead in north Dorset in January 2022 was ended after no one person could be proved criminally responsible.
The Isle of Wight was chosen to reintroduce white-tailed eagles, also known as sea eagles, as it offers an ideal habitat with plenty of fish in its surrounding waters for them to feed on.
There is a robotic scraper - it helps reduce emissions from cows waste by removing it from the open air more quickly and regularly than can be done by hand.
"The problem with cauliflowers is, between losing them in the dry weather in the summertime and the frost in the wintertime, you maybe only have 70% cut," Stephen says.
"So, with price pressure from supermarkets - quality, you know - we basically dropped the cauliflowers in the really cold weather and the really hot weather, but we're back to a 12-month programme now."
Regardless of which of the climate bills currently progressing through Stormont crosses the legislative line first, agriculture is in the crosshairs for targets to reduce the emissions it produces.
"We have floods regularly and I have never seen this amount of rubbish brought down with the water, the actual branches have been totally covered in plastic."
The definition of "green space" in the UK includes any land with vegetation on it - it could be a playing field, a disused railway line or an allotment.
World Wildlife Fund production policy head Alec Taylor said: "Access to green space is without doubt vital - but when that space is polluted or devoid of nature, it doesn't mean much."
The government has now set out how it intends to meet legally-binding targets on water quality, biodiversity and waste as well as international targets agreed at the COP15 UN biodiversity summit in December.
Caroline Lucas, Green Party MP for Brighton, has raised separate concerns about how the plans to get people back into nature could affect farmers in the UK.
"At the moment nearly three million people live more than 10 minutes from green space and any new access would be needed to be protected in perpetuity," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
Plans for climate-friendly flying rest on creating greener jet fuels that have less impact on the environment.
Switching to sustainable fuel is also key to the government's aim to reach "jet zero" flying by 2050.
But the Royal Society concludes there is currently no single, clear alternative to traditional fuel.
Flying is responsible for 2.4% of global greenhouse gas emissions and 8% of UK emissions.
London Heathrow is the largest global user of biofuels but it accounts for just 0.5% of the airport's fuel.
However the UK currently does not generate enough renewable electricity to make enough green hydrogen.
The authors say it remains unclear exactly how much each alternative fuel would reduce the climate impacts of flying.
(16:20 GMT - This story has been updated to add a response from the UK airline industry trade body)
Zero Waste Scotland's carbon metric report tracks the full lifecycle impact of items thrown away by Scottish homes.
The report looked at the emissions generated by the products Scottish households consume and then throw away.
It also looked at the emissions from the disposal of household waste items through landfill or incineration.
The textiles category included clothing, shoes and carpets - with clothes and shoes accounting for about 80%.
Izzie Eriksen is the founder of the ApparelXchange social enterprise, based in the southside of Glasgow.
Its stylish shop sells second-hand clothes that come from donations, school drives or lost property.
Zero Waste Scotland said the increase in textile waste was the main contributor to this.
The clothes we wear can have a huge impact on the climate, even more so than the aviation industry.
Most of our textiles, particularly clothes, are made abroad and emissions are attributed to the country of manufacture.
But the scale of the problem is not insignificant and, since we're creating the demand, really it's our problem.
And think how much pressure there is for us cut down the amount of time we spend in the air.
Changes have been announced to the plans for a deposit return scheme for cans and bottles in Scotland.
But opposition parties still want the plans put on hold so they can be reviewed.
The Scottish Conservatives claimed the "last-minute" changes were an acknowledgment that its design was flawed.
Firms producing fewer than 25,000 units a year will also be given the option of using stick-on barcodes.
Mr Golden said a well-designed scheme could be beneficial, but that in its current form it was unworkable.
Scientists are harnessing the microorganisms in soil to generate electricity that could one day help decontaminate polluted landscapes.
They are soon to launch a start-up to bring soil microbial fuel cells (SMFCs) to a commercial market.
"All we do is capture those electrons so we can make electricity out of them," she told BBC West.
Closer to home, the planned start-up will initially focus on "smart" agriculture applications.
The government's flagship green heating scheme has been described as "seriously failing" by a Lords inquiry.
The Boiler Upgrade Scheme grants households £5,000 to help switch from a gas boiler to a low-carbon heat pump.
The government responded by saying it would launch a marketing campaign to make people more aware of the scheme.
Anthony Hibbs got a heat pump installed in his new-build home in Newcastle-under-Lyme through the scheme last year.
There is not a lot of guidance leading you to decent people - you are on your own."
There are an estimated 3,000 heat pump installers in the UK compared to 130,000 registered gas heating engineers.
She said: "Government and business need to work together on this, we hope the grant will continue.
Even with the grant, Mr Taylor and Mr Hibbs spent £8,500 and £6,000 respectively on their heat pumps.
It is not going to be acceptable if the underspend in the first year somehow disappears back to the treasury.
The UK government is set to announce where a ground-breaking power station will be built.
Carbon capture power plants are part of the government's commitment to remove carbon from UK electricity production by 2035.
It hopes to build at least one by the mid 2020s, although that deadline now looks improbable.
There are three proposals under consideration: one at Keadby in north Lincolnshire and two near Redcar on Teesside.
All would require the construction of a pipeline to transport the captured CO2 under the North Sea for storage.
The amount being captured at these proposed power stations is very small by comparison.
None of the three proposed carbon capture plants claims to capture more than two million tonnes a year.
The government has set a target to capture between 20 and 30 million tonnes of CO2 a year by 2030.
The cost of a new gas power station at Keadby, providing electricity for nearly a million homes, is £350m.
The cost of renewable energy for example has plummeted in the last decade.
The only carbon capture power station currently operating is a coal-fired plant at Boundary Dam in western Canada.
Agriculture remains Northern Ireland's highest-emitting sector, new figures from the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs show.
Overall, Northern Ireland's greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 24% between 1990 and 2020.
Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which include carbon dioxide and methane, trap heat from escaping into space.
The inventory estimated 2020 emissions to be 21m tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (MtCO2e).
This was a 24% decrease on the 28 MtCO2e emitted in the 1990 base year.
The sector contributed 16% of emissions in 2020, and is predicted to have a similar share (17%) in 2031.
The battle for the world's environmental survival is, at this moment, lost," he said.
In a speech to the gathering, Green MP Caroline Lucas, warned: "We don't have another 50 years."
An Indian state minister's comments on culling tigers has sparked a debate on conservation.
He was speaking amid outrage over the death of a farmer in a tiger attack.
The minister later told the BBC he only repeated a suggestion from locals regarding culling tigers.
The attack in Kerala took place on 13 January in the Mananthavady forest range in Wayanad district.
After his death, angry locals protested against forest officials and demanded that the tiger be killed.
Local media reported that Mr Saseendran had mooted culling as a possible solution to the issue.
"So the suggestion to cull tigers to reduce their numbers is not a sound idea," he says.
In large parts of eastern and north-east India, tigers are virtually extinct because of excessive hunting of prey and tigers.
If tigers enter human habitats and prey on livestock, authorities should immediately pay compensation, he says.
No other country protects wild animals outside of its national parks," Mr Gadgil said, according to the report.
An investigation into the death of a white-tailed eagle has found no evidence of unlawful killing.
The satellite-tracked eagle was found dead on Bowcombe Road, on the Isle of Wight, in February 2022.
A police statement said specialist post-mortem examinations found the cause to death to be "uncertain".
The birds are all fitted with GPS tracking devices, allowing their flight paths to be monitored.
They are the UK's largest bird of prey, with a wingspan of up to 8ft (2.5m).
County Tyrone farmer says her industry is trying to offset its greenhouse gas emissions
But it's also Northern Ireland's biggest producer of greenhouse gases (GHG) - responsible for 27% of emissions.
"I think we need to be given credit for what we do to sequester carbon," says Jessica Pollock.
But we also sequester a lot of carbon, so this needs to be accounted for."
She has introduced some green measures since taking over her family farm after returning from university.
And the farm itself is powered by a water turbine she installed, along with solar panels on the outbuildings.
"This is not about reducing and destroying the beef and dairy herd, but we have to recognise the science."
"It's just at what speed and they're capability to do it with the profit margins they have."
Stormont MLAs have agreed to move Northern Ireland's first ever climate bill to the next stage.
The bill sets a 2045 net zero greenhouse gas emissions target for Northern Ireland.
It does not specify the level of reductions required in various sectors like agriculture, transport and energy.
The bill would also create the role of Climate Commissioner to oversee progress against those targets.
As the sector which emits most greenhouse gases, the farming sector fears it will be disproportionately affected.
It said that would be a fair contribution to a wider UK net zero target.
Mr Poots claimed his policy proposals were being held up by Sinn Féin at the Executive.
Sinn Féin, Alliance, the SDLP, the Green Party, Ulster Unionists, and several independents back the bill.
They have been out litter-picking every day for weeks to try and clear the area of sanitary waste.
"The plastic in the river is really not going to be good for the wildlife at all."
Byron Baker-Brown, who owns Channel Kayaks, saw his business premises completely carpeted in debris following the floods.
He said the local community had been hiring kayaks just to help with the clean-up effort.
"Individuals need to take more responsibility for what they are sending down toilets," he said.
Everyone will live within 15 minutes' walk of a green space or water under new government plans to restore nature.
Habitat for wildlife will be expanded and there will be 25 new or enlarged national nature reserves.
More money will go to protecting rare wildlife, such as hedgehogs and red squirrels.
The Ordnance Survey mapping agency estimates 28% of people live further than 15 minutes away from their nearest public park.
The government promised in 2018 to leave the environment in a better state for future generations.
The post-Brexit green watchdog warned the country was facing a "deeply concerning decline in biodiversity".
Green groups have been calling for a "quantum shift" in action and ambition on restoring nature.
Yet, the latest figures show key animals and plants declined by 82% between 1970 and 2018.
The pine marten was once found across the UK, but has declined dramatically due to deforestation and hunting.
The government is setting up a multi-million pound Species Survival Fund to protect and restore habitats.
Some researchers say it's the second greatest environmental risk to health in Western Europe.
It's not just Birmingham, this model can be applied to any town or city.
Giving it a cash value will help make the case for even more new tree planting to come.
It also accuses zoo authorities of mistreating the animal - the BBC contacted officials but they declined to comment.
They are everywhere, in temples, in private ownership and are embedded in our history," she said.
Animal rights activists have long advocated for more humane treatment of India's captive elephants, which live in dismal conditions.
Many, owned by private individuals, are used for religious processions, logging activities and sometimes even begging.
Shankar wasn't always alone - he came to India in 1998 with a companion, Bombai.
Zoo officials have said they don't know where in Africa the elephants are from.
For some years, Shankar and Bombai seemed content enough at the zoo, touching, nuzzling and smelling each other.
These gases warm the atmosphere, contributing to global warming and climate change.
It concluded that none could replace fossil jet fuel in the short term.
Some airlines now use very small amounts of biofuel, largely made from crops.
Another option is fuel made from hydrogen produced with green electricity.
Another major barrier is that existing plane engines cannot use hydrogen-based fuel.
Environmental campaigners say the government must also encourage people to fly less.
The environmental body said Scots "need to rethink our consumption of goods".
Each of these steps will create greenhouse gases in the country of production.
It's an environmental imperative that we turn this around."
Concerns had been raised about the impact of the recycling programme on small businesses.
Circularity Scotland announced £22m of cashflow support to remove upfront charges from some companies.
A 20p deposit will be added to cost of items sold in Scotland.
They will then be invoiced for deposits and fees.
Producers will also be given two months' credit terms for payments.
The researchers hope SMFCs can help the world end its reliance on fossil fuels.
"It's an exceptionally simple device," Prof Di Lorenzo said.
She told the BBC: "The scheme isn't working as well as it needs to.
He told the BBC his new heating system was "absolutely brilliant".
It wasn't easy at first and I have never seen the scheme advertised as such."
The government declined to comment on what would happen to this unspent funding.
The money was set aside for a good purpose."
In 2021, the UK emitted 425 million tonnes of CO2.
That's fallen by almost 50% since 1990.
That could involve other industrial processes as well as power generation.
The technology has been around for decades.
There are no such plans to use the CO2 from the new proposed power stations.
The hope is that the price might fall over time.
The latest Greenhouse Gas Inventory details emissions in 2020.
Agriculture was responsible for 28% of local emissions in 2020.
Compared to the base year of 1990, that is a rise of 7%.
From the base year to 2020, transport emissions decreased by 2%.
"I'll say to you now that it's too late.
The focus now, he thought, would have to be on mitigation.
A medical report said that his wounds had caused "excessive bleeding".
"The proposal of the forest minister is legally not tenable," Bhargav said.
"But in 90% of tiger forests there is no such problem.
We should not lose sight of this basic fact," he says.
"India is the lone country having legislation for protecting wild animals.
I think it is irrational, foolish, unconstitutional and nothing to be proud of.
How the Indian government launched ‘Project Tiger’ to save the animals from extinction
The force said there was "no evidence of criminal offences".
Many of them return to the island after their travels.
Agriculture in Northern Ireland feeds 10 million people across the UK.
Methane is a potent, if short-lived, GHG.
She's a young farmer, running a dairy farm just outside Castlederg, County Tyrone.
All these innovations cost money.
"It's very difficult to implement strategies without being profitable on farms."
But one expert says innovations are only a part of the puzzle.
Stephen Murdock can see the science in his fields.
He grows vegetables near Comber and is in a race to harvest his broccoli.
It's a different issue with some of the other brassicas he grows.
Elsewhere in his fields, the water lies - drowning cauliflowers that will go unpicked.
The land is simply too boggy to get to them.
It's something Jessica has mixed feelings about.
"What is good for the environment is often good for farms too," she says.
"I do think it's very important that every farm is progressing.
It establishes a legal framework including five-year plans for emissions cuts.
Those would come later, be set by Executive departments and require assembly approval.
It is opposed by farmers, Agriculture minister Edwin Poots and his DUP party.
Mr Poots told MLAs it would be "extremely detrimental to our economy".
Bill sponsor Clare Bailey said there was nothing in it which "harms farming".
The DUP and Jim Allister of the TUV oppose it.
Water companies must also keep sewage out of the water, rowers say.
It is going to take a long time," he added.
Access to green spaces varies considerably across the UK and for different groups.
The ambitions of the Environmental Improvement Plan include:
The plan also looks at restoring natural habitats.
"We need to think on a landscape scale," he said.
"There is no magic bullet, but by modernising airspace to make flying more efficient, by introducing new zero emission technology like hydrogen aircraft and by upscaling the use of sustainable aviation fuels this decade, it can be achieved," it said in a statement.
Regarding the Royal Society's assertion that sufficiently supplying the UK aviation industry with sustainable fuels would put pressure on food supplies, Airlines UK said the UK had sufficient feedstocks, that they would be drawn initially from household, commercial, agricultural and forestry waste and waste industrial gases, and that they did not compete with food crops.
"Decarbonising aviation is undoubtedly a challenge, and the sector is working closely with government on ways to accelerate the transition and maximise both the environmental and huge economic opportunities from leading the 'jet zero' transition,"Airlines UK said.
"Not all aspects of modern life in Western nations have an easy 'technofix' for the damage they do to the environment, and nowhere is this truer than for air travel," suggests Leo Murray, director of innovation at climate charity Possible.
"We're trying to encourage people to go second hand - part of that is the experience they have when they come in, things are well displayed, it meets quality standards and the pricing and labelling so it's really easy to find.
Mr Gulland added: "The circular economy gives us the opportunity do things differently without compromising on quality of life, evolving an economy that's better for both people and planet in which goods and materials are valued and made to last."
Circularity Scotland, a private non-profit company set up to administer the DRS, has now said firms selling fewer than three million units a year will not have to pay deposits and fees for the first month of the scheme.
"Instead of this desperate bid to save face, Lorna Slater should swallow her pride and accept that the scheme should be paused at once for an independent review to address the numerous concerns of business."
In 2019, the team conducted a pilot in a semi-arid fishing village in the north east of Brazil which is reliant on water stored from the rainy season for use throughout the rest of the year.
Water can be made safe using an electrochemical reactor that generates oxidants to purify the water through the application of a current, but this can be problematic for remote communities because it requires a reliable source of energy.
The University of Bath team has successfully powered the reactor through a stack of MFCs, and their latest version of the technology is able to purify enough water per day to meet the needs of a family of five.
But in her letter to the government, Baroness Parminter, chair of the Lords Committee, heavily criticised ministers for not doing more to raise awareness of the scheme - which is on track to issue just half of the allocated grants.
The problems with the scheme are reminiscent of the government's previous Green Homes Grant which was meant to support households with energy efficiency measures like insulation, but was scrapped after less than a year in 2021 for lack of installers.
But Rebecca Dibb-Simkin, Chief Product and Marketing Officer at Octopus Energy, which was praised by the Committee for its investment in heat pump design and training, said the scheme had boosted confidence in the industry and Octopus Energy has 50,000 people on its waiting list for a heat pump.
The committee has said that for lower- and middle-income households the grant is not enough, and they are being put off by the higher upfront costs of installing a heat pump compared to a gas boiler.
Stew Horne, head of policy at The Energy Savings Trust told the BBC: "That upfront cost is a real issue, and policy has to focus on addressing that... through grants or low-cost loans or through green finance."
The Lords Committee for Environment and Climate Change said the government needed to expand the programme to match this scale and also guarantee that the unspent funding from Year 1 of the BUS - which they estimate at about £75m - would roll over to subsequent years.
There has been a big expansion in renewable energy in the last decade - in particular the use of offshore wind - but the unresolved question is how to keep the lights on when the wind isn't blowing.
"These power stations look like another excuse for the government to show preference to their friends in the oil and gas industry, making energy more expensive to everyone else's disadvantage," says Dr Doug Parr of campaign group Greenpeace UK.
"The climate and nature crises are more critical than ever, and it feels to me that what falls upon the shoulders of the Green Party is a most extraordinary responsibility but an awesome opportunity as well."
Deputy leader of the Green Party of England and Wales Zack Polanski said it was "vital" to be "honest about the urgency of the situation", but cautioned against underestimating "the importance of hope alongside practical action".
There is, however, a provision in the law "in case of serious human-wildlife conflict", where a state's chief wildlife warden can allow a tiger to be hunted "after being satisfied that it cannot be tranquilised or translocated", he added.
"Standard toxicology testing was not possible due to the avian influenza positive test, but the limited analysis that was undertaken did reveal elevated background levels of two rodenticides, brodifacoum and difenacoum, though not at sufficiently high levels to have caused the death of the bird," it said.
"We're going to have to shift to where we're subsidising farmers to sequester carbon, to pay them to re-wet bogs and peatlands, and there's some experiments already going on, to plant native trees because this sucks out carbon from the atmosphere.
Vice-captain of The Minerva Bath Road Rowing Club Ian Burdiss said: "The state of the river is as bad as I have ever seen it and I have been rowing for 40 years, 30 of them in Bath.
Jules Taylor, one of the rowers who has joined the clean up effort, said: "The rubbish just makes rowing really unpleasant, we are quite low in the water and you can smell it and things get in your oars as well."
"This plan provides the blueprint for how we deliver our commitment to leave our environment in a better state than we found it, making sure we drive forward progress with renewed ambition and achieve our target of not just halting, but reversing the decline of nature," he said.
In 2020, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) reported black people in England were nearly four times less likely than white to have access to outdoor space at home, whether it be a private or shared garden, a patio or a balcony.
In 2020, the government adviser for the natural environment, Natural England, found "that people who live in neighbourhoods with greater amounts of green infrastructure tend to be happier, healthier and live longer lives than those who live in less green places".
The Wildlife Trusts Chief executive Craig Bennett said the plans must ensure "the whole of government is acting to halt the chronic loss of nature and tackle this existential threat to our prosperity, our ability to produce food, and to have enough clean water".
One lesson for how to turn around the fortunes of some of the UK's native wildlife comes from conservation efforts to protect the pine marten, a small woodland mammal that is making a return to southern Britain.
"The pine marten is a good example of how a species can recover if people stop killing them, you provide more habitat and you direct conservation efforts," said Lizzie Croose of the Vincent Wildlife Trust.
David Fletcher from the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology has come up with a model that looks at the trees in a city and turns their noise reducing benefits into a cash value based on the impact on our health.
He would be the first to admit reducing a beautiful urban park to just a cash value can seem crass, but when you do that of course it allows the people holding the purse strings to compare the financial benefits of trees to other options properly for the first time.
You may be hoping that guilt-free flying is just around the corner, but scientists warn it is still a long way off.
To produce enough to supply the UK aviation industry would require half of Britain's farming land, putting pressure on food supplies, the Royal Society says.
Ammonia and synthetic fuels are also under consideration, but they need even more green hydrogen and it is unclear if existing planes could use them.
But they stress that in the long term a successful alternative fuel will probably be developed, but that airplanes and airports will need to be re-designed.
They are calling for more research into sustainable aviation fuel, suggesting that the UK could become a global leader if it invested in solving the problem.
His organisation wants the government to tax frequent flyers, the small number of people who take around 70% of flights from UK airports.
A Department for Transport spokesperson said: "The UK's Sustainable Aviation Fuels programme is one of the most comprehensive in the world.
Sustainable Aviation Fuels and Hydrogen are key elements of this, and we will ensure that there is no impact on food crops."
Textiles such as clothing and shoes are the most environmentally-damaging type of household waste in Scotland, according to a new study.
This included the extraction of the raw materials which make up those products and the manufacturing of them - processes which often happen abroad.
This might include the production of the yarn or the fabric and then the manufacture of the finished product, such as washing and dying.
There was a slight overall increase in the total carbon footprint of Scottish household waste, rising by 0.9% on last year.
"The average Scot consumes more than twice the sustainable amount of materials per year, and our throwaway culture encourages that approach.
This is a problem which is hidden from official statistics since we only count greenhouse gases emitted on our own shores.
The body set up to run the scheme - due to go live in August - has now announced extra support for small firms.
The deposit gets passed down the chain, eventually to the customer who pays 20p more for the bottle or can.
The customer gets this back when they hand the used container in at a return point, either over the counter, or using a reverse vending machine.
Retailers will act as return points - and will reimburse customers from their own funds, but can claim this back from the scheme's administrator.
Circular Economy Minister Lorna Slater said she hoped the changes would address many concerns raised by smaller producers such as craft brewers.
She said: "It addresses initial cash flow challenges, and provides a pragmatic and simple solution to the issues raised around barcodes for smaller product lines.
"This is a package that gives businesses the clarity and confidence they need to be part of Scotland's deposit return scheme."
A team at the University of Bath has already used the clean technology to help remote communities in Brazil purify their water supply.
Mirella Di Lorenzo, a professor of biochemical engineering, explained how microorganisms generate electrons as they break down organic matter in soil.
SMFCs only generate tiny amounts of electricity, but unlike established renewable technologies it does not rely on materials that are difficult or unsustainable to source.
Prof Di Lorenzo said its advantage was how cheap the material is and also the fact it needs very little maintenance once set up.
The community usually uses chloride to disinfect the water, which can cause health problems such as vomiting and diarrhoea when consumed in large amounts.
Elsewhere, the team has funding from the European Commission for a project to use MFC technology to decontaminate fossil fuel pollutants in soil.
These include sensors to monitor soil health and allow growers to tailor fertiliser application and minimise pesticide use to improve sustainability.
On Wednesday, the Lords Climate Change Committee said grant take-up is so low the national target for green heating is "very unlikely to be met".
Heating in UK homes produces nearly 17% of the country's greenhouse gas emissions, which are responsible for climate change.
The Boiler Upgrade Scheme was meant to kick-start the heat pump industry in England and Wales, and reduce the cost of installation for homeowners.
It is absolutely critical that the government boosts public awareness... we need to give people the confidence to know about why these changes are important."
But he said finding information on installers and the scheme was difficult: "I had to look online and do a lot of research.
"We know we can generate demand, and the grant would help people with the cost… it's kind of a perfect relationship."
Baroness Parminter told the BBC she had made it very clear to government: "They have got to get that money back.
The carbon capture plant is designed to stop most of the carbon dioxide (CO2) it produces being released into the atmosphere.
Burning fossil fuels like oil, gas and coal to generate electricity emits CO2, which is the main driver of climate change.
The carbon capture process stops most of the CO2 produced from being released, and either re-uses it or stores it underground.
It's mainly been used in industries where captured CO2 can be reused, for example to force out oil and gas from underground reserves.
Catherine Raw of energy company SSE told the BBC that building a similar sized gas power station with carbon capture would roughly double the cost.
There are those who see carbon capture as too expensive and believe the money would be better spent on renewables and power storage (like batteries).
In September 2022 there were just 30 carbon capture facilities in the world, according to a report from the Global CCS Institute.
Almost all of these are attached to industrial plants carrying out activities such as natural gas processing or fertiliser production.
Once built, it is hoped other industries would use the UK power station's pipeline to store CO2 under the North Sea.
However, several carbon capture gas power stations similar to those proposed in the UK are in development, mostly in the US.
It says agriculture is the only sector to have shown an increase since the base year of 1990, with all other sectors reducing their emissions.
The emissions estimates in this report cover seven greenhouse gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride.
Based on the projections released on Thursday, agriculture is expected to see a decrease of just 1% between 2020 and 2031.
But its share of emissions is projected to rise to 32% by 2031, as "other sectors reduce emissions at a faster rate".
Over the coming years, emissions are expected to decrease year-on-year, with an overall estimated reduction of 13% by 2031.
It added that the business sector will contribute almost a third of (31%) the overall reduction in emissions from 2020 to 2031.
The residential sector's emissions have fallen by 23% between 1990 and 2020, with a decrease of 24% expected between 2020 and 2031.
And energy supply emissions have decreased by almost half (46%), with a slower rate of reduction anticipated from 2020 to 2031.
WATCH: Green Party co-founder Michael Benfield tells the BBC that the battle for the world's environmental survival is now lost.
One of the founders of what would become the Green Party of England and Wales has declared "it's too late" to save the environment.
"I think we have succeeded in helping to educate... but we have failed in dealing with the battle for environmental survival.
The scale of the solutions which he believed were necessary would be simply too unpalatable for any political party to propose, he argues.
He was speaking 50 years since the first public meeting of PEOPLE, which would become the Ecology Party in 1975 and the Green Party in 1985.
She said: "We are living through maybe one of the most consequential decades of human history, which I appreciate is a very big thing to say.
India is home to more than 70% of the world's tigers - according to the most recent government estimate, the numbers stand at 2,976.
But their habitats haven't expanded at the same rate, forcing so-called "surplus" tigers to move outside protected reserves and come in conflict with humans.
The victim, 50, sustained serious injuries to his hands and legs and died of a cardiac arrest while being transferred from one hospital to another.
"We have to find a solution to control the animals... I am not in a hurry to cull," he said.
Dr Karanth said that sometimes problems do arise in a few tiger habitats where there is a high density of the animals.
And if they become man-eaters, they should be "immediately killed", Dr Karanth adds, calling it "damage control in specific instances".
The bird was part of an ongoing conservation project, run by Forestry England and the Roy Dennis Wildlife Foundation.
Both organisations were involved in an investigation into the bird's death lead by Hampshire Constabulary, after it was found dead on 24 February.
It urged users of rodenticides - particularly brodifacoum which is known to be highly toxic to wildlife - to always follow user guidelines.
The white-tailed eagle project started in 2019 and sees at least six birds released annually on the Isle of Wight.
Data from the trackers has shown they explore widely, with some making it to the north of Scotland, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark.
The industry is feeling the pressure to reduce that amount, while also calling for the work it does to protect the environment to be recognised.
The land in Northern Ireland is mostly suited to raising meat and dairy, but cows produce methane in large quantities.
"There's very few other industries that can sequester carbon, so I think from that perspective, yes, cows do emit a lot of methane.
"Making sure the farm is profitable to sustain that until that can make a profit for you is necessary," she says.
"Farmers are the stewards of the land, they have particular challenges," says John Barry, professor of green economics at Queen's University Belfast.
"We should finish cutting broccoli middle-November, but we're here just past the middle of October and all the broccoli is ready."
They voted 58 to 29 in favour after more than six hours of debate, meaning the proposed legislation will proceed to detailed scrutiny at the assembly.
She said the goal was to see farms of all sizes thrive, not see the industry continue to contract and consolidate.
The minister is drawing up his own legislation which draws on a recommendation from an advisory body to government on climate.
The Climate Change Committee said it suggested a reduction of at least 82% in emissions by 2050 given Northern Ireland's economic reliance on agriculture.
Ulster Unionist Roy Beggs said he could not support the bill but would back one reflecting the recommendations of the Climate Change Committee.
Rowers are pleading with the public to stop flushing hygiene products after huge volumes of litter washed into the River Avon during January's floods.
One rower said he had seen branches "totally covered in plastic" as volunteers used rakes to retrieve potentially hazardous rubbish.
She added: "It's not great, there's a lot of wildlife out here, we see otters, we see birds, there's a lot of fish.
"When you look at it today it doesn't look too bad, that's because of the efforts of a lot of people," he said.
"We've been doing this for a couple of weeks now, clearing, and there's quite a few weeks left to do.
Mr Baker-Brown said litter pickers were being encouraged to wear personal protective equipment such as face masks because of the potentially toxic material they were collecting.
"I think the companies that are managing that waste need to look very closely at what they are allowing into the rivers," he added.
The research team looked at hundreds of previous studies on the benefits of physical activity and concluded that even doing half the recommended amount could prevent one in 20 cases of cardiovascular disease and nearly one in 30 cases of cancer.
Not everyone finds it easy to do the exercise recommended by the NHS - two out of three people say they do less than 150 mins (2.5 hours) of moderate exercise and fewer than one in 10 manage more than 300 mins (five hours) per week.
Some 3,000 firms operate 10,000 pharmaceutical factories making generics (copies of branded medicines that usually sell for a fraction of their price), over-the-counter medicines, vaccines and ingredients in what is one of the world's largest drug-making countries.
In 2013, after a seven-year long investigation, top Indian drug maker Ranbaxy Laboratories was ordered to pay a record $500m fine in the US, the biggest handed down to a generic drug maker for improper manufacturing, storing and testing of drugs.
Official government records reveal that between 2007 and 2020, more than 7,500 drugs sampled in just three of India's 28 states and three union territories had failed quality tests and had been declared drugs "not of standard quality" or inferior, research by Dinesh Thakur, a former Indian drug executive-turned-public health expert, found.
"The total number of patients affected by such inferior drugs possibly runs into hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions over the last decade," says Mr Thakur, co-author of The Truth Pill, a piercing look at drug regulation in India.
He believes that the DEG-related incidents had occurred at home - and now abroad - because some firms "quite often fail to test either the raw materials or the final formulation before shipping it to the market".
"Given the sheer quality of drugs detected as "not of standard quality" over the last decade from the open market it is obvious that a large number of manufacturing facilities are completely flouting quality and process control procedures that form the core of 'good manufacturing practices'" says Mr Thakur.
Dr Rahul Baxi, a Mumbai-based diabetologist, told me that only once in recent years he became suspicious about a drug when glucose levels of a patient shot up after he switched off from branded drug to a cheaper generic.
"Many of my patients that come from far flung parts of India buy six months of prescribed drugs from pharmacies in the city because they say they don't trust drugs available in their areas," Dr Baxi said.
Alice Wiseman, Gateshead director of public health, said a report in 2020 showed that, while life expectancy across the UK had stalled, it had started getting shorter for those in the bottom 10% income bracket in the North East.
Nel Huws, 23, from Clwb Pêl-droed y Felinheli football club, said: "It doesn't even cross my mind sometimes that there are no facilities, because you just become so used to the fact that there aren't any.
"The Welsh government has been thinking about its period dignity plan - actually, how can we factor in providing funding, providing facilities for clubs, that are maybe struggling but can see that this is quite a wide issue across Wales, across multiple sports?"
According to the body's assistant director, Owen Hathway, ensuring sufficient facilities for women is essential "not just to address the issue of women and girls' participation around their period, but also their participation in general and feeling like they're a part of the sport sector in Wales".
The Welsh government said: "Since 2018 we have invested around £12m to ensure that children and young people and those on low incomes have access to free period products, as well as committing £24m in capital funding over the next three years to Sport Wales to develop facilities across Wales.
Dr Catherine Sharp from Public Health Wales said the survey is still in its pilot stage, but seeks to ask members of the public for their opinions on a range of topics, which in turn could shape future policies.
"In order for us to understand what we should be doing, what direction we should be travelling in, we need to understand what the public's view is, and how we can help to work with them to shift patterns.
The treatments can help those with depression, anxiety, PTSD and body dysmorphia and are centred on the use of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) - a talking therapy which can help a patient manage their problems by suggesting alterations to their thought process and behaviour.
Using a series of modules on topics related to depression, online programmes such as Beating the Blues and Deprexis offer worksheets and exercises to help people better understand their mental health problems, alongside techniques for changing their behaviour or thinking patterns.
Professor Dame Til Wykes, of the School of Mental Health and Psychological Sciences at London's King's College, cautioned "we don't know enough" about the effectiveness of online therapies and whether the therapies will offer sufficient support for mental health patients.
The content manager for mental health charity Mind, Jessica D'Cruz, told the BBC: "We're always pleased to see innovation in mental health therapies that can help people have greater choice in how they are supported, and allow all of us to find a therapy that works for ourselves.
"It's also important to remember that with the ongoing underfunding of NHS mental health services, and the issues many services are experiencing in the wake of pressures from the pandemic and cost of living crisis, the majority of people in need of mental health support will struggle to benefit from this.
A study of 200 cancer patients with cancer-therapy-induced cardiomyopathy, or CCM, by Imperial College London researchers has pinpointed the genetic risk factors, paving the way for testing of patients before they start chemotherapy to find out who is at risk.
"Doctors need to be more proactive about asking their patients what else they are taking when they are being treated for cancer," Prof Cardoso, head breast surgeon at the Champalimaud Cancer Centre in Lisbon, Portugal, told the BBC.
Grete Brauten-Smith, clinical nurse specialist at charity Breast Cancer Now said: "With a lot of unproven information available online and little reliable research into these products, a discussion with a healthcare professional can ensure a patient has the accurate information they need to make an informed choice."
Martin Ledwick, head cancer information nurse at Cancer Research UK, said: "Doctors should be aware of this research as it suggests cancer patients need to be monitored more closely after treatment, for heart disease and stroke.
Prof Metin Avkiran, associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation, said the study offered further evidence that, compared with the general population, cancer survivors are at much greater risk of death from heart and circulatory diseases.
KK Harshina, 31, says she lived with unbearable pain in her stomach for years, that is until a scan last year showed that a pair of forceps had been left inside her body during a surgery.
It found if everyone did as little as 11 minutes of daily activity, one in 10 premature deaths could be prevented.
That equates to 75 minutes per week - or 11 minutes per day - riding a bike, walking fast, hiking, dancing or playing tennis.
"You should feel yourself moving, your heart will beat faster but you won't necessarily feel out of breath," says Dr Soren Brage, who led the research.
Doing that amount is enough to reduce the risk of developing heart disease and stroke by 17% and cancer by 7%, the findings suggest.
Regular exercise reduces body fat and blood pressure while also improving fitness, sleep and heart health in the long run.
"If you find that 75 minutes a week is manageable, then you could try stepping it up gradually to the full recommended amount."
Getting enjoyable activities into your weekly routine is the best way to increase the amount of physical activity you do, they say.
In the winter of 2019, a number of children living in India's Jammu region began falling sick with what many thought was a mysterious illness.
By the time the mystery was solved, 11 children, aged between two months and six years, had died.
The tainted drugs and the tragic deaths again shone a spotlight on India's $42bn - half of the revenues come from exports - drug manufacturing industry.
Although India imports 70% of the active ingredient chemicals for its medicines from China, it is trying to make more of them at home.
India's traditional expertise in making generics has helped make it a formidable low-cost maker of drugs and become a global manufacturing base.
Some 40% of over-the-counter and generic medicines sold in the US and a quarter of all medicines dispensed in the UK come from India.
Outside the USA, India has the most number of drug making plants - 800 - that are compliant with the US health and safety requirements.
Many believe that India has always battled a flood of counterfeit drugs, mostly sold in small towns and villages.
But analysts say the physicians and patients are possibly conflating sub-standard drugs with what they think are fake medicines.
In 2014, India's top drug regulator famously told a newspaper: "If I follow US standards I will have to shut almost all drug facilities."
More than 70 people, mostly children, have died in five separate mass poisoning incidents related to drugs spiked with DEG since 1972.
These drugs failed tests for not having enough of ingredient chemicals, impaired ability to dissolve in the patients' blood or were found to be contaminated.
Each failed sample typically represents a batch of the medicine, which in turn could run into hundreds of thousands of tablets, capsules and injections.
Using right to information law, Mr Thakur found many of India's state-owned drug testing labs lacked key equipment.
Drug sampling practices, he noted, date back to a colonial 1875 law where inspectors pick up a small number of random samples from the market.
India has been debating a law to recall drugs that have been found to be inferior from the market since nearly half a century.
It is difficult to understand the scale of the problem - many of India's drug factories are indeed world-class.
But he suspects that there could be counterfeit or inferior drugs being sold in small towns and villages.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which regulates medical products in the US, posts inspection status of firms supplying drugs to the US and warning letters.
A pharmaceutical industry leader, insisting on anonymity, told me that "although some countries do have very rigid quality standards", India's drugs were completely safe.
"Instead of just sitting down in your house, where you can just dwell on things, you can use this as a distraction, meet knew people," he said.
"It blows my mind - just to see the difference in some of the patients that we've worked with," she said.
"They build their confidence up, it reduces GP appointments, it reduces A&E appointments, and it just makes them connect with the community and be resilient."
The North East has among the highest rates of drug-related deaths, heart disease, liver disease and suicide in England.
Rates of child poverty are double the England average in some areas with poverty underpinning much of the ill health.
Social prescribing is only one part of a plan by the NHS, local councils, and community groups to make improvements by 2030.
"Nine of all 13 areas within this plan have a healthy life expectancy of less than 60 years," she said.
They want medicine "to help them feel better" but the required medicine is often "not chemical, it's social" when the issue is depression and loneliness.
What is needed is "forming friendships and feeling as if they've valued, as if they're worth something", she said.
Health experts in Charlotte County, in southwest Florida, say the victim was probably infected after rinsing their nasal sinuses with tap water.
He added that officials are "working with the local public utilities to identify any potential links and make any necessary corrective actions".
Symptoms include headache, fever, nausea, vomiting, disorientation, a stiff neck, a loss of balance, seizures and/or hallucinations.
Tap water can also be used if it is boiled for at least one minute and cooled before use.
People are also advised to avoid taking on water in their nose while in swimming pools or bathing or showering.
An international rugby player has warned a lack of period facilities is adding "obstacles" to women from participating in sport.
One expert said the lack of facilities is the result of grassroots and women's sport being seen as lower priority.
Elinor Snowsill, who has 71 caps for Wales, says she was regularly caught out on her period in the early stages of her career.
"There's still times where we'll travel abroad and there won't be any facilities in the toilet," she said.
Fellow player Llio Emyr said the team has travelled to multiple matches to find there are no facilities in the changing rooms.
"Because of the worry of leaking, or not being able to manage being on their period, or not having access to sanitary bins.
It often comes down to funding, she says, especially for grassroots clubs which are more reliant on creating their own funding.
In 2022, 8% of school girls in Wales surveyed by Sport Wales said they would do more sport if they could manage their period better.
"The first time I volunteered for an hour in the charity shop I was absolutely shattered - I had to take a nap afterwards."
Chronic fatigue syndrome limits what Maddie can do, and overdoing it can leave her feeling unwell, with joint and muscle pain or migraines.
"I used to love going hiking but I can't do that any more without sacrificing a couple of days afterwards to rest.
"Quite honestly I don't think about what I want to do in the future because I don't know what my health will be like.
I don't want to have a huge plan and then not have it become an eventuality - that would just be too hard on me."
"Knowing that what I can do - which is a little - is still helping other people who are in less fortunate situations than me.
"I can't think of a single one of my friends my age who doesn't suffer with anxiety or social anxiety of some sort.
"Knowing that I work with the same group of people every day and they're all absolutely wonderful has really helped that.
"Now we know where the public are already targeting their time, we can look to build on those elements.
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has recommended eight online therapies for anxiety and depression.
Each therapy must come with a formal assessment from an NHS therapist in order for it to be recommended.
According to NHS Digital, there is a six-week waiting list for patients who need mental health support in England.
Sarah, who was diagnosed with PTSD by a GP, trialled online therapy as part of a Cardiff University study.
In work, if I've got an important meeting and I feel a bit anxious, it's taught me techniques for breathing and mindfulness."
Mark Chapman, interim director of medical technology and digital evaluation at NICE, said: "Our rapid assessment of these eight technologies has shown they have promise.
But online support isn't right or accessible for everyone, so it's important that we all have a range of support offered to us.
"I noticed one of my nipples was inverted and when I Googled for answers, I thought: 'Oh God, this can't be me.'"
Three years later, after surgery to remove one breast, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and another major reconstructive operation, Kreena felt she was out of the woods.
But then on a trip to Canada "to celebrate the end of my life with cancer", she felt grim.
"He told me to squeeze his hand if I remembered having a red liquid during chemotherapy treatment," Kreena recalls.
The problem is caused by chemotherapy drugs damaging the heart muscle, meaning it can no longer pump properly - and this can lead to heart failure.
But working out which patients will get heart damage, and which won't, has proved really tricky up until now.
During two weeks in a Canadian hospital, she sent voice messages back to relatives, preparing them for the worst.
It was enough to allow Kreena to fly back to the UK, but that was just the start of her journey to recovery.
Medication and intense rehab followed, which allowed her heart to creep back into a normal range of function.
But there was one thing she was told was too dangerous - having a baby would put too much strain on her heart.
A surrogate was found, and using her own embryos, her daughter was born and is now 16 months old.
"Next month, I'm climbing in the Himalayas. I'm living an extraordinary life and I'm very grateful," Kreena says.
Garlic, ginger and ginkgo pills, for example, can delay the healing of skin wounds when breast cancer spreads.
Prof Cardoso said it was not surprising that patients and their carers went searching for complementary or alternative treatments that might make a difference.
On its website, Cancer Research UK says some complementary therapies might stop conventional treatments working as well as they should.
More than one in 10 cancer patients die from heart and blood vessel problems, rather than their initial illness, a study says.
The researchers say the increase in the numbers surviving cancer means more attention should be focused on cardiovascular risk.
Among the 3.23 million cancer patients studied, 38% died from cancer and 11% from cardiovascular diseases (CVD) - of which, three-quarters were from heart disease.
The proportion of cancer survivors dying from CVD was highest in those with disease of the bladder, larynx, prostate, womb, bowel and breast.
The risk in the first year could be explained by the effects of chemotherapy or radiation treatment on people's bodies.
"But it doesn't tell us why some cancer patients may be at higher risk of dying from cardiovascular disease.
"For some, it might be treatment-related - radiotherapy to the chest and some chemotherapy drugs can lead to a higher risk of heart disease.
A mother of three, Ms Harshina underwent Caesarean operations (also known as C-section) for each of their births.
Her last surgery was a C-section at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode district in 2017 for the birth of her son.
"When I complained, I was told by the doctors that it was because I had a third Caesarean operation," she says.
The process of trying to trace the source of the pain also took a mental and financial toll on her.
Ms Harshina complained to the state health minister Veena George, which led to the appointment of a committee to investigate the matter.
Earlier this week, Ms Harshina went on a hunger strike outside the hospital, demanding that the state government take action against those responsible.
On Thursday, local Opposition leaders persuaded her to give up the hunger strike, saying it was impacting her health.
The people running the Gloucestershire Mentoring Programme, which is free for 11-25 year-olds, aim to help 300 people over two years.
For anyone affected by the issues raised in this story, information about a range of support is available via the BBC Action Line.
"My mum wasn't driving at the time, so she couldn't come down and see me and my dad's never really attempted to see me much."
"I remember I burst out in tears, thinking that I was going into care, because I thought my mum didn't want me, either.
Now 15, she has attended seven different schools - moving through so many because of her behaviour and threats to expel her.
The programme works with seven different organisations across Gloucestershire and South Gloucestershire and is free to girls and young women in the area.
It has already had 162 people referred, who are either currently being assessed or now in a mentoring relationship.
Her mentor helps her to "get in the right head space", she said, and also helps with things like homework.
This can range from physical, sexual or emotional abuse to neglect, substance misuse or having a relative in prison, amongst others.
They may also be experiencing "adverse community environments", such as poverty or violence, displaying antisocial behaviour, or be linked to others involved in criminal activity.
She said while she has also suffered through her life, "all that's happened, it's made me the person who I am".
"It's those little changes in behaviour and that actually, maybe I am getting through to this young person."
While she was nervous when she first starting mentoring, Rachael said it is all about finding a connection that will help them open up.
"It could take weeks and months for them to actually open up about what they're really there for," she said.
Gloucestershire Mentoring program manager for The Door, Elisha Kyne, said young woman and girls are often "overlooked".
"In terms of that consistent support, and providing that trusted adult over the long period of time it doesn't exist," she said.
"It shows that young person they want to be there for them, they like them, they're not being paid to do it."
Mr McCullar didn't just need medical attention, according to the podcast, he needed to exercise - his brain.
And, roughly three-quarters of adults (76%) said they have experienced negative health effects due to stress, including headaches, fatigue and depression.
In 2018, he launched Inception, the first mental health gym in the state and one of the first in the country.
"You go to a typical gym because you want to move your body and better your body," Mr McCullar explained.
"Same here. You don't have to come in with a diagnosis. You come in because you want to better your psyche."
Jake Luhrs, founder of YourLife gym in Pennsylvania, recommends journaling to clients seeking to build self-esteem and mental resilience - when they're not lifting weights.
The gym owners hope approaching mental health through a traditional fitness lens will help reduce the stigma that stops millions of adults from seeking help.
Those with "actual emotional distress or illness", Dr Sederer said, will have a hard time committing to any routine activities online.
The average delay between the onset of mental illness symptoms and treatment is 11 years, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Ms Meyer believes making mental healthcare "fun and accessible and integrated" into daily life is key for optimising mental health.
"Every time something good happens to you, or every time you receive positive feedback, drop that in your self-esteem file," she said.
Like with any fitness routine, "when you do a lot of (emotional) push-ups", Ms Meyer said, "over time you start to build strength."
People travelling from China and four other Asian countries now have to produce a Covid-19 negative test report before entering India.
But reports of the surge in China and the memories of two deadly Covid waves in 2020 and 2021 in India have made many people fearful.
You don't have to be a runner or play sport to feel the benefits of exercise - fitting a brisk walk into your day is good enough, UK analysis suggests.
The NHS recommends everyone does 150-300 minutes of physical activity that raises the heart rate every week or 75-150 minutes of vigorous activity per week, which makes you breathe hard.
The benefits of exercise were even greater for some specific cancers, such as head and neck, gastric, leukaemia and blood cancers, but lower for lung, liver, endometrial, colon and breast cancers.
"If you are someone who finds the idea of 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity a week a bit daunting, then our findings should be good news," says Dr Brage.
The analysis, in the British Journal of Sports Medicine, looked at previous published research on the benefits of exercise in nearly 100 large studies and nearly 200 peer-reviewed articles to get an overview of the evidence.
They calculated that if everyone in the studies had done at least 150 minutes of exercise a week - the full amount - then around one in six early deaths would be prevented.
For example, they advise trying to walk or cycle to work or to the shops instead of using a car, or being active when playing with your children or grandchildren.
Tests found that three samples of the cough syrup, made by an Indian drug company called Digital Vision, contained diethylene glycol or DEG, an industrial solvent used in the making of paints, ink, brake fluids.
Earlier this month, the World Health Organization (WHO) put out a global warning over four India-made cough syrups thought to be linked to the deaths of 66 children in The Gambia.
Lab analysis of the samples of a syrup made by a 32-year-old firm called Maiden Pharmaceuticals Limited confirmed the presence of "unacceptable amounts" of diethylene glycol and another toxic alcohol called ethylene glycol.
Yet such breathless growth - the industry has been running at a clip of over 9% every year for nearly a decade - has been clouded by allegations of problems of quality and weak regulation.
Mr Thakur says he worries that many Indian firms are not following "good manufacturing practices" or GMP, a drug industry term to refer to testing for quality control.
After the deaths of the children in The Gambia, India claimed that its federal regulator was "robust" and sought more details from the WHO on the causality of the deaths with the exported cough syrup.
A spokesperson told me that its policies ensure that "companies - regardless of where the are located - meet the FDA's strict standards for producing medicines for US patients that are high quality, safe and effective".
"Social prescribing" is part of a plan by health and council bosses to tackle what Gateshead's director of public health described as "really shocking" health outcomes in the region.
It has seen Craig enjoy a day out at an allotment run by his GP's surgery where he has dug and cleared, but also chatted with other people, and not been alone.
Julie Bray, from Oxford Terrace and Rawling Road Medical Group in Gateshead, was one of the first NHS social prescribers in the country and said she was "really passionate" about it.
Linda Robinson, who runs events to help people like Craig from the same Gateshead surgery, said people went to their doctors "because they feel ill, they feel as if they don't fit in".
On 23 February, the Florida Department of Heath said that a patient had been infected "possibly as a result of sinus rinse practices" utilising tap water.
It can lead to a severe infection if it enters through the nose, but it is normally safe through the mouth because stomach acid kills the single-cell microorganism.
"I once had to change my tampon in a kit container on the side of the pitch, where they kept the pads and the balls," she said.
Ms Snowsill said the situation has improved, with the WRU providing support such as period pants, pelvic floor training and cycle tracking for its elite players.
Dr Natalie Brown, who researches the menstrual cycle in sport at Swansea University, said: "The reality is it stops girls and women participating in that sport.
"But also, sometimes it's based on the fact that female sport isn't seen as high profile or as much of a priority compared to the male counterpart to that sport.
The WRU said it was keen to break down any barriers to female participation in rugby, and would be asking all clubs in Wales about facilities needed for the future.
"We are proud of the impact this funding has had and of the work we have done in partnership with local authorities and health boards to disseminate products through our schools, colleges and communities."
"Because I couldn't go to school and all my friends were still in school, I felt isolated," said Maddie, from Cardiff, who volunteers at Tenovus Cancer Care in the city.
Her experience chimes with the findings of a new survey by Public Health Wales, which showed nearly three-quarters of people actively choose to help others to protect and improve their own mental wellbeing.
"I know it won't be for everyone, but compared to where I was a couple of years ago, I do feel more confident in my future now."
Nearly three-quarters of people in Wales choose to help others in order to protect and improve their own mental well-being, according to a new survey released by Public Health Wales.
"Perhaps those individuals who are already benefiting from it can share and spread that message in their community, so other individuals can benefit from it as well."
The therapies have been conditionally recommended by NICE - meaning early assessments have taken place to identify promising medical technology but more evidence needs to be gathered.
Others, such as SilverCloud, provide mindfulness tools and resources which are designed to be completed by the patient, but overseen by a mental health practitioner.
"Developed using tried-and-tested CBT methods, each one has demonstrated it has the potential to provide effective treatment to the many thousands of people who live with these conditions."
Using a series of trials, NICE intends to gather further information about how effective the programmes are, as well as whether they "represent good value for the NHS", Mr Chapman added.
But she added: "We have evidence that these digital therapies hold promise. We now need to know how they work in routine practice so we can tailor them to get the most benefit."
The UK government must urgently give mental health services the financial support they need to be able to expand the availability of new treatment options such as these."
When diagnosed with breast cancer in 2013 at 33, she had just settled back into working life after getting married and spending a year backpacking round the world.
She had even arranged to have some of her eggs harvested, so that embryos could be created and frozen in case the cancer treatment made her infertile.
Thanks to advances in treatments, more patients than ever are surviving cancer - but one in 10 are developing serious heart conditions, sometimes soon after finishing treatment, others years later.
Scientists knew that the very young and the elderly were at high risk, but they've now found out that faulty genes also play a role in increasing risk in other people.
"Some have a gene to cause heart failure and they get a second hit from the chemo," explains Dr Alex Lyon, a consultant cardiologist at the Royal Brompton Hospital and Imperial College London.
The good news is that drug treatments can reduce the risk of heart damage in these patients and close monitoring can pick up potential problems early, Dr Lyon says.
After a two-month stay in the country on a no-salt diet and being cared for by her husband, her heart function had improved from 6% to 12%.
Her expedition is part of of push to raise awareness of breast cancer in young women from the charity Coppa Feel, a cause that's important to her.
Cancer patients should tell their doctors if they are taking herbal products because some of the ingredients could stop their treatment working, a cancer conference has heard.
She said it was particularly important that patients always checked with their doctors first before trying complementary therapies for cancer that had spread to the skin.
The danger is that many products can interfere with hormone therapy or chemotherapy treatments, and certain ones prolong the blood clotting process - which can lead to wounds taking longer to heal and more scarring.
It also says it is important to avoid some food and drinks such as grapefruit and oranges during cancer treatment, because they can affect how well cancer drugs are broken down in the body.
The charity says: "Talk to your doctor about any complementary therapies you're thinking of using. Tell them before you start having complementary therapy, especially if you're in the middle of a course of cancer treatment."
Speaking at the Advanced Breast Cancer Fifth International Consensus Conference, Prof Cardoso said therapies like yoga, mindfulness, reiki and acupuncture could have a positive impact on patients' quality of life.
Dr Nicholas Zaorsky, a radiation oncologist, from Penn State Cancer Institute, who led the study, said knowing about the risk could help patients live more healthily in the long term.
"Increasing awareness of this risk may spur cancer survivors to implement healthy lifestyle behaviours that not only decrease their risk of cardiovascular disease, but also the risk of cancer recurrence."
"But some of the cancers included in the study share lifestyle risk factors with cardiovascular disease - for example, obesity and smoking, which might also explain the increased risk.
He added: "We need more research to understand why this is, and whether factors other than the known damaging effects of some anti-cancer treatments on the heart and blood vessels are at play.
"What is becoming increasingly clear is that cancer doctors and cardiologists need to work together from an early stage to try and minimise the risk of patients surviving cancer but succumbing to heart and circulatory diseases."
A woman in the southern Indian state of Kerala who suffered through years of excruciating pain because of a botched surgery says she is still waiting for the doctors responsible to be punished.
It was only in September 2022, when she had tests conducted for a urinary bladder infection, that she found out what the problem was - a scan showed there was a piece of metal inside.
The metal turned out to be a pair of forceps - 6.1cm long and 5 cm wide - used by doctors to clamp down on bleeding vessels during surgeries.
The Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital said that none of its surgical equipment had gone missing and referred to the two surgeries Ms Harshina had undergone before coming to them.
A separate government probe was unable to trace the origins of the forceps - both the hospitals where Ms Harshina underwent surgeries did not have a record of the instrument.
A mentoring programme aimed at empowering vulnerable girls and young women considered at risk of being drawn into crime has reached 162 people since being set up in March.
"They told me I need to change my ways, otherwise it can get me a serious trouble when I'm older, but I didn't think that helped very much.
"With mentoring, they've sat down, and they've said it in a way where they're not telling you 'you need to sort yourself out', they're giving you advice.
At only 11-years-old, she was scared she would end up in a foster home, but instead her nan, who lived 50 miles away, took her in.
"It was kind of like I didn't have any parents because I didn't have a proper phone, so it was hard to keep in touch with my mum and my dad.
"It was very emotional day, but then both my mum and my stepdad said that they're happy for me to live with them, and I've been living with them since."
Launched in March, it offers those at risk of becoming involved in the criminal justice system the chance to form a trusted relationship with a trained volunteer.
"We just kind of talk and listen to each other, and it's really nice, because it gets me away from home, and it gets me off my phone and everything else," Chloe said.
Since joining the programme Chloe has now started a part-time job and is looking at college applications - something she did not think would be possible.
"I thought I need to be that person's little rock, someone they can talk to for an hour a week, or whatever, and be there for somebody else."
Rachael, who was "in and out of foster care" when she was young, is currently mentoring a 14-year-old girl under this programme, as well as an adult under a separate scheme.
She meets her mentee for about an hour, once a week and activities can vary from meeting in a cafe, going on a walk, or even doing a word-search or crafts together.
You never know what those conversation are going to be... but to see them come away thinking 'oh that's been a positive result', to see that, I just love it.
"It's to let these girls know that they don't need to do this or that, or to try and prove themselves, it's just to be you, for you."
The volunteers are supported by staff at the individual charities, and as well as an initial five-week training course, they can also attend extended training programmes that address specific concerns.
The programme is made up of seven mentoring organisations, which all have their own specialisms: 1625 Independent People; Breathe Youth; Thames Valley Partnership; The Door; The Nelson Trust; WAM Youth; and Young Gloucestershire.
Programme organisers said through listening to the girls and young women, it gives them the space to talk and be heard, which in turn helps them build resilience and to grow in confidence.
While the mentoring is not a crisis service, the mentors can find themselves dealing with issues ranging from emotional problems, run-aways, drug use, and suicidal thoughts.
"For young men and boys they may be presenting with more obvious behaviours that would be linking them, on the route to the criminal justice system," she said.
"Whereas for young women and girls that is sometimes less obvious, and also they can be the culprit of something due to being pulled in via another route.
Ms Kyne said it is the long-term support - which can last a year or more - that is one of the things that makes this programme stand out from others in the area.
The programme, which also liaises with police, social care, health, education and youth services, has funding from the grant-making charity, CHK Foundation, to operate for at least two years.
Jill Anderson, coordinator for Gloucestershire Mentoring Program, said that through working alongside other services they "bridge the gap between girls and young women, and the support they need".
"This is an earlier intervention - we are trying to support people who are going to be linked with the criminal justice system, but we're trying to do that earlier on," she said.
"They help these young people to make good choices, because it's quite often we find that these young people don't have a trusted adult in their life, and that can be quite transformational."
When 42-year-old David McCullar thinks back to the early 2000s, a chapter in his life marked by rapid changes, he recalls palm trees, sunny beaches - and panic attacks that made him ill.
But where gastroenterologists, anti-nausea pills and indigestion drugs failed to make a difference, a podcast about "brain training" and its effects on mental health offered him hope.
Just like routinely lifting weights can help muscles adapt to physical stress, some experts say performing these types of activities regularly can help people adapt to mental pressure.
In 2022, one in four US adults said that most days they are so stressed they cannot function, according to the annual Stress in America survey published by the American Psychological Association.
Not long after hearing the podcast, in 2007, Mr McCullar flew to Arizona to see one of the few practitioners at the time with brain-training experience.
Kidney failure is common after consuming this poisonous alcohol.
Regulatory oversight and enforcement is unsurprisingly spotty, analysts say.
That's not all.
Physicians say they largely trust India-made drugs.
Mr Thakur says: "An aberration should only happen once.
You can't play with people's lives".
"People aren't even reaching retirement age without having a life-limiting illness.
"It is really shocking."
"And miraculously their illness goes away.
They don't feel depressed.
They don't feel isolated anymore."
Naegleria fowleri infects the brain through the nose.
Officials say that drinking it is not dangerous.
Officials have not identified the victim.
People who are infected contract a disease called primary amebic meningoencephalitis.
CDC data suggests infection in winter months is incredibly rare.
Sterile or distilled water are preferred options.
But she added that there's still more to be done.
"It really affects the way you're able to play."
"Most of the facilities were made for men at the start, obviously.
"The knock-on effects from a long-term perspective are actually huge."
"My self-confidence and self-esteem were absolutely shattered.
Volunteering alone isn't a magic bullet.
"When you do them you get a burst of confidence," she said.
She has found a huge sense of self-worth from volunteering.
That's just amazing.
It's a safe space where you can trust the people there.
Hospital doctors were baffled, until one cardiologist made a crucial link.
She did.
"Most patients are told there's a small risk of heart problems."
"My recovery is incredible," she says.
"I didn't think I'd be coming home."
"So we started to look at other options," she says.
"There's work to do educating patients and doctors."
The study said cancer patients were "perpetually at elevated risk".
She underwent another surgery to have the instrument removed.
Both investigations led to a dead end.
The health department's investigation also failed to fix responsibility.
"I will sit on strike [until I gets justice]," she says.
"I also know that they aren't going to just leave."
Her mum tells her she has had "a very messed-up childhood".
"He didn't really want me," Chloe said.
But Chloe's home life is still difficult.
Despite going through various different councillors nothing seemed to help.
"No one should feel lonely and lost," Rachel said.
"I'm not expecting to work miracles.
"You've got gain their trust and and vice versa.
"I was throwing up every day," Mr McCullar said.
In 2001, the company he worked for went bankrupt.
He lost his job.
He left his hometown.
A few years later, Mr McCullar suffered a debilitating back injury.
Depression followed.
Most people don't manage to do the minimum recommended 150 minutes of exercise a week, however.
But doing some exercise is better than doing nothing, the researchers from the University of Cambridge say.
The researchers say replacing some habits is all that is needed.
The NHS recommends adults also do activities that strengthen muscles twice a week.
Yoga, pilates, lifting weights, heavy gardening and carrying heavy shopping bags all count.
The children, suffering from cough and cold, had been prescribed a cough syrup by local doctors.
Instead of recovering, they fell seriously ill, vomiting, running high fever and kidneys shutting down.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has championed India as the "pharmacy of the world".
The country supplies some two-thirds of anti-retroviral drugs globally to fight HIV.
State-run drug testing labs in many states are under-funded, short-staffed and poorly equipped.
"All it has are guidelines, which many state regulators seem to be unaware of.
Have you ever heard of a drug recalled in India?" says Mr Thakur.
"We are not defending the mishaps," he said, "but these are aberrations".
Three things to know about cough syrup and deaths in The Gambia.
A new approach to helping people with depression is becoming more and more popular.
"Social Prescribing" sees GPs sending patients on trips to places like allotments rather than pharmacies.
Healthcare professionals say it works, and reduces pressure on GPs and A&E too.
Craig Denton, from Gateshead, has struggled with depression and loneliness for years.
"It's like a sense of darkness that covers you, and you can't escape," he said.
He is one of more than eight million adults in England now taking antidepressants.
But, in the North East, a new approach to helping people with depression is growing.
A Florida resident has died after becoming infected with a rare brain-eating amoeba, officials say.
Infections are almost always fatal, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
On Thursday, a spokesman for the state health agency confirmed that the patient had died.
Officials across multiple government agencies are "continuing to investigate how this infection occurred," spokesman Jae Williams said.
The amoeba typically lives in warm fresh water such as swimming pools, lakes and ponds.
According to the CDC, around three Americans get infected each year, often with deadly consequences.
Between 1962 and 2021, only four of the 154 people infected in the US survived.
Officials warn that to avoid infections people should not rinse out their nasal passages with untreated tap water.
Fly-half Elinor Snowsill says access to bins, toilets, and toilet paper during her career has been "pot-luck".
The Welsh government said it is committing £24m to developing sport facilities by 2025.
"I was worried one of the male staff members would walk in while I was doing it."
Some women are choosing not to participate in sport because of a lack of period facilities
Period symptoms can already make it difficult for women to take part in sport, she added.
"We don't need even more obstacles, in the fact that there are no facilities.
"This happens once a month - not once in a while, but 12 times a year."
Grassroots players say the issue is so widespread that it's been "normalised".
"No toilet paper, no bins whatsoever to dispose of period products," she said.
"They need to follow what's been done in leisure centres, where there are plenty of facilities."
The situation could have an "enormous" impact on public health, according to an expert.
Just two hours a week volunteering at a charity shop has helped turn Maddie Davies's life around.
A diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome seven years ago affected all areas of the 19-year-old's life.
It is a disorder characterised by extreme tiredness and there is currently no cure.
"I'm currently much better thanks in part to working at the charity shop and therapy."
Maddie has had counselling to help her focus on setting small, achievable goals.
But she explained she felt incredible afterwards for having achieved something.
"For example, 72% are connecting with nature. That's fantastic.
That is an open resource that we have here on our doorstep throughout Wales.
NICE says the therapies have the potential to help more than 40,000 people in the UK.
There are hopes that introducing online digital therapies could ease pressure on the NHS.
Some online treatments for PTSD have already been trialled by the NHS in Scotland and Wales.
"I've been completely match-fit since I've done the programme," she told the BBC.
She added: "It's given me techniques that are so useful in everyday life.
"It's bonkers what's happened over the past five years," says Kreena Dhiman from Crawley in West Sussex.
She was tired, her chest was tight and she was struggling to breathe.
The diagnosis was acute heart failure and she was rushed to intensive care.
It's even given rise to a new medical specialty called cardio-oncology, which focuses on delivering cancer treatments safely.
Even patients like Kreena, who were left fighting for breath, can return to live a normal life.
"I thought I wouldn't see my 40th birthday, but now it's just two weeks away."
"More people are surviving cancer after chemo and more are getting secondary diseases.
Surgeon Prof Maria Joao Cardoso, said there was no evidence that herbal therapies or creams worked.
If in doubt, it was best not to take anything, she said.
This happens in one in five cases of breast cancer - and less in other cancers.
She highlighted the following herbal products as examples of those which slow down clotting:
But she said people should know "they could end up doing more harm than good".
"The highest goal in medicine is important to remember: do no harm," she said.
The European Heart Journal looked at three million US patients, with 28 different cancers, over 40 years.
UK experts say doctors should be more aware and monitor patients accordingly.
But rates continued to be higher than those in the general population.
"This is another reason why it's important for everyone to have a healthy lifestyle."
The BBC's Imran Qureshi talks to her about her ongoing fight for justice.
"I cannot describe the pain that I suffered for five years," Ms Harshina tells the BBC.
She got two of these at a government hospital in Kozhikode's Thamarassery town in 2012 and 2016.
It was only after this procedure that she started getting stomach pain, Ms Harshina says.
"I was also told that many other women also had a similar complaint."
As the pain persisted, Ms Harshina consulted several doctors over the years.
The Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital also conducted an internal inquiry.
The BBC reached out to Ms George for comment but is yet to receive a response.
Ms Harshina called off her hunger strike but continues to sit in protest outside the hospital.
"I think I've always known that my behaviour isn't good," Chloe said.
"I've had a lot of counsellors inside school, outside school, and I've had a couple of therapists.
Fifteen-year-old Chloe, not her real name, admits she has a hard time trusting people.
When Chloe was about 13, her nan also decided she did not want her living with her anymore.
She lives in a two-bedroom council flat, which she also shares with her two younger siblings.
She struggles to control her emotions and easily gets angry and frustrated.
Frequently getting into trouble, she was "mouthing off" at teachers and hitting out.
That was until she was put in touch with the Gloucestershire Mentoring Programme.
For Chloe, the chance to form a bond with a trusted adult has started to make a difference.
Girls and young women welcomed onto the programme have all suffered "Adverse Childhood Experiences".
The programme uses volunteers from all walks of life, aged over 18, with one volunteer who is 80-years-old.
Rachael, 40, is a mentor for The Door in Stroud, which leads the collaborative programme.
She became involved with the charity in 2018 and started mentoring in June this year.
"Now I can help a young person, by just being there for them," she added.
"These volunteer mentors working with these young girls, change their life outcomes.
He moved over 1,000 miles (1,600km) away, from Detroit, Michigan, to southern Florida.
He was searching for new beginnings but found panic and anxiety.
He then returned home where he witnessed his parents going through a divorce.
"It just felt like everything was happening all at once," Mr McCullar said.
He returned to Michigan inspired and wanting to help others who were struggling like he had.
The gyms encourage people to perform mental health exercises to decrease anxiety and depression.
"People are already familiar with going to a traditional gym," Mr McCullar said.
"We're just normalising mental health by softening it with the word gym."
There once was a melancholy little gray planet.
He observed the moon as he then turned to face the sky.
The moon soon had blooms covering it from top to bottom.
This entire magnificent universe was crafted by God.
He gave it beauty, joy, and greenery.
There were broad, grassy meadows filled with vibrant flowers.
God then made man to take care of his lovely creatures.
But later, God began to have second thoughts.
He questioned whether Man would truly look after his creations.
Man soon lost sight of God's warning.
He began to steal, lie, and do other sinful things.
As a result, Earth became a vast desert.
But God pardoned Man once he recognised his error.
They come to escape the cold winters - especially the frozen ground.
Despite having all the technology and spaceships you could ever need, the inhabitants hadn't taken care of it.
There were no longer any plants or animals in the entire countryside because of how heavily it had been polluted and defiled.
A little boy was once strolling through the world when he came across a cave and a tiny red flower inside.
The boy carefully pulled up the flower, roots, soil, and all, as it was very ill and on the verge of death.
He looked all over the world, but nothing he saw could possibly contain the blossom because it was so tainted everywhere.
The flower began to flourish because it was far from the pollution and because the youngsters went there every day to take care of it.
The flower received such excellent care that it quickly gave birth to more blossoms, which then spread to other flowers.
To feed, a starling sticks its beak in to the ground and then opens it to make a hole.
A starling's eyes swivel to point forward so it can see if there's a tasty insect grub in the hole.
Even if it could, it would find most of the grubs have dug themselves in deeper to avoid the frost.
It's harder to digest these so the starling's gut grows longer in the winter to get the most out of its food.
Perhaps it is warning us that if we don't take care of our planet, there will come a time when plants will only be able to flourish on the moon.
They either separate the seed from its husk with their beak or they pull the seed apart to get to the good bit - the starch that the seed would have used when it was time to grow.
Because of this, the moon occasionally develops a gentle red shine for a few minutes, acting as a warning light, whenever the young boy's flowers bloom.
When you get to Earth, do not sin.Alternately, as a punishment, the earth will become a large desert and lose all of its beauty.
Then he began looking for a location where he could take care of it.
The boy had the impression that the plant might be able to survive there.
So the young child dressed in his astronaut costume and boarded a spacecraft.
They left for the moon after he placed the tiny red flower in the back.
Then God created birds and other animals to inhabit the forests, meadows, and fields.
The smartest and most intellectual of all of his creatures, Man is what He made.
He then forewarned Man, saying, "You must preserve earth's natural beauty and greenery.
Because of this, there is still some vegetation on the planet.
Thousands of starlings come here every winter, some from as far away as Russia.
This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 374(2) of theCode of Criminal Procedure, 1973 by the advocate for theappellant praying to set aside the order of conviction andsentence in S.C.No.232/2008 on the file of the II AdditionalSessions Judge, Gulbarga and acquit the appellant.
The case was committed to the sessions court for trial, which framed charges against the accused and the accused having pleaded not guilty and having claimed to be tried, the prosecution had examined 17 witness and marked 11 documents and 3 material objects.
It is their consistent evidence that Laxmi was constantly complaining about the appellant ill-treating her complaining that she had produced a female child when he wanted a male child and further that she had not fetched enough dowry and therefore she should bring some more money.
The learned Counsel would point out that PWs.1 to 6, who were the witnesses belonging to the village of the appellant, namely Suntan village, had all turned hostile and not supported the case of the prosecution.
Therefore, in the absence of any direct evidence of ill-treatment or instigation by the appellant, it cannot be said that the prosecution has made out any case insofar as offences punishable under Sections 498A and 306 of the IPC are concerned.
The unfortunate circumstance that PWs.1 to 6, who did make statements in the first instance of they having seen the ill-treatment meted out to the deceased, having turned hostile, does not negate the evidence of other witnesses.
Therefore, to hold that the prosecution had established its case beyond all reasonable doubt insofar as the offence punishable under section 498A cannot be presumed merely on the basis of the evidence of PWs.8 to 11.
In that view of the matter, it cannot be concluded with any certainty that there was constant cruelty meted out to Lakshmi and that there was abetment of the commission of suicide by Laxmi.
We are inclined to concur with the argument put forth by the assessee that Infosys BPO Ltd. is not functionally comparable since it has the benefit of market value as well as brand value.
Therefore we clarify that mere dissatisfaction with the findings of facts arrived at by the learned Tribunal is not at all a sufficient reason to invoke Section 260-A of the Act before this Court.
After hearing the accused on the point of sentence, Learned Sessions Judge has passed further judgment awarding death sentence as against accused Nos.1 to 9, for the offence punishable under Section 302 r/w Section 149 of IPC, on four counts.
Seeing the incident, grand father and uncles of the complaint were proceeding towards Police Station to lodge a complaint, but the Accused accosted them and assaulted and also threatened the public with dire consequences, if they intervened in their action.
After the investigation was over, charge sheet came to be laid against the Accused for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 307, 302, 114, 506 and 504 r/w Section 149 of IPC.
After hearing the accused, on the point of sentence, held that the case falls within the scope of `rarest of the rare case' and awarded death sentence to Accused Nos.1 to 9 for the offence under Section 302 of IPC, on four counts.
He has cited a decision reported in (2010) 1 SCC (CRI) 925 (DILIP PREMNARAYAN TIWARI AND ANOTHER Vs. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA) on the point of appreciation of evidence in so for as the discrepancies/omissions in FIR.
He further submits that though, the alleged eye witnesses, have not witnessed the incident, the trial Court erred in accepting their evidence as gospel truth to base conviction for the offences alleged against the accused.
Charge sheet reveals that accused named in FIR namely Accused No.7/Shivappa Chanabasappa Udakeri, Accused No.10/Raju Siddalingappa Konnanavar and Accused No.13/Siddalingappa Appanna Konnanavar were given up while adding Accused No.9/Shankreppa Chanabasappa Udkeri, Accused No.11/Gourawwa Nagappa Udkeri and Accused No.13/Nagappa Chanabasappa Udkeri in the charge sheet.
Again on 29.8.2005, at about 8.00 am, when the complainant was washing bullocks in front of his house, Accused No.10/Mallawwa, who was standing on the staircase of her house, teased him and threw slipper at him.
On hearing the hue and cry of Pw-1, his wife Ratnavva came to the entrance of their house and requested the Accused not to assault her husband-P.W.1, but Accused Nos.1, 2 and 9 assaulted her and killed at the entrance of her house.
She has further deposed that the CPI, Bailhongal, produced three accused persons viz., accused No.7/Chandranaik, accused No.3/Siddalingappa @ Mudakappa and accused No.5/Rajashekhar @ Gangappa before her on 10.9.2005 along with a report as per Ex.P-61.
IN the cross-examination of P.W-47, she has deposed that since the complainant himself gave further statement stating that the other accused mentioned in the FIR did not commit any offence, they were given up.
All the star witnesses were cross-examined by the defence at length by learned counsel for the accused, but nothing worth while was elicited to disbelieve their oral evidence as to the role of the accused in the commission of crime.
It is alleged that Accused No.10 threw chappal at the complainant and instigated the Accused persons to kill the complainant and his family members and also assaulted on the fore head of the deceased Siddalingappa with a stone.
No doubt the name of Accused No.9/Shankreppa does not find a place in the FIR, but during the course of recording statement of the witnesses, he was arrested and according to the evidence of eye witnesses, Accused No.9 assaulted Ratnavva and Nagappa with an axe.
The evidence of the prosecution that accused No.11 to 15 abetted the crime is not sufficient to base conviction in the absence of cogent and satisfactory evidence and they are entitled for an order of an acquittal for all the offences alleged against them. 20.
Keeping in view the above principles laid down by the Apex Court, we are of the considered view that death sentence awarded by the trial court is contrary to the principles laid down by the Apex Court.
The appellant Messrs. Raghubar Mandal Harihar Mandal, hereinafter referred to as the assessee, is a firm of bullion dealers carrying on its business at Laheriasarai in the district of Darbhanga in the State of Bihar.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected those returns as also the books of account filed by the assessee for all the seven quarters and assessed the assessee under el. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
By its order dated December 10, 1948, the Board rejected the applications for making a reference to the High Court on the same ground, namely, that no question of law was involved and the assessment orders were concluded by a concurrent finding of fact.
It is also well settled that the dutyof the High Court is to start with the statement of the case as the final statement of the facts and to answer the question of law with reference to that statement.
We must, therefore, make it clear at the very outset that the question relates to those four quarters only for which assessments were made under s. 10(2)(b) of the Act, and the answer given to the question will govern those four quarters only.
In spite of these differences, thetwo provisions are substantially the same and impose on the assessing authority a duty to assess the tax after hearing such evidence as the dealer may produce and such other evidence as the assessing authority may require on specified points.
The point for our consideration is-can the assessing authority, purporting to act under s. 10(2)(b) of the Act, assess the amount of tax due from a dealer more or less arbitrarily or without basing the assessment on any materials whatsoever ?
In some decisions relating to the corresponding provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act, it has been said that the difference between the two is one of degree only, the one being more summary than the other.
These are questions which do not really fall for decision in the present appeal, which is confined to interpreting the true nature and scope of el. (b) of sub- s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
Firstly, the High Court treated the question referred to it as a pure question of fact; if that were so, then the High Court should have rejected the reference on the ground that it was not competent to answer a question of fact.
In our view, the approach of the High Court to the question referred to it was erroneous and the answer given to the question by it solely on the basis of sub-s.(4) of s. 10 of the Act was vitiated by that wrong approach.
It was not sub-s. (4) of s. 10 of the Act which the High Court had to consider; it had to consider the true scope and effect of cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
It is clear to us that what the Sales Tax Officer and the Commissioner did was to hold, for certain reasons, that the returns made by the assessee and the books of account filed by it were incorrect and undependable.
We propose to examine briefly some of those decisions, though, as we have stated earlier, the question is really answered by the observations made by this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills' case (1).
This decision is really against the respondent and does not lay down any rule which may be said to be inconsistent with the observations made by this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills' case (2).
In that case, the validity of the assessment under s. 23 (3) of the Indian Income-tax Act was not challenged by the assessee and the appeal was directed solely to the amount of assessment.
Since he was not satisfied that the return was correct and complete he could not proceed under section 23 (1); he, therefore, as appeared upon the face of the assessment, proceeded under section 23 (3).
The company had been allowed devel-              opment rebate under s. 10(2)(vi-b) and that amount was              debited in the profit and loss account of the company for              the accounting year leaving a small balance of profit in the              profit and loss account.
The development rebate reserve created by thecompany, although it does not form part of the assessableprofits, undoubtedly forms part of the commercial profitsand hence constituted accumulated profits of the company..within the meaning of s. 2(6A)(e).
The use of the expression 'whether capitalised ornot', as qualifying the expression 'accumulated profits' incls. (a) to (d), but not in cl. (e), shows that the legisla-ture does not intend to rope in capitalised profits in el.(e).
The High Court has directed some modification in the calculation of the said amount while answering the other questions referred to it at the instance of the asses- see and we need not go into their details.
We think that the term "profits" occurring in section 2(6A)(e) of the 1922 Act means profits in the com- mercial sense-that is to say the profits made by the Company in the real and true sense of the term.
By the amendments made by the Income-tax Amendment Act, 1946., the Finance Act, 1955 and the Finance Act, 1956 certain initial depreciation was allowed in re- spect of buildings newly erected or the machinery and plant newly installed.
The amount of initial depreciation was not deductible in deter- mining the 'written down value' although under proviso (c) it was to be taken into account in the aggregate of all allowances so as not to permit them to exceed the maximum limit provided therein.
Although initial depreciation and development rebate were not identical as they differed in some material particulars, they were similar in nature as both were by way of incentive for installation of new ma- chinery or plant.
The initial depreciation or the develop- ment rebate was to be allowed, as the case may be; at a certain percentage of the actual cost of the machinery or the plant for the year of installation only.
In the Finance Act of 1955 a provision was made to allow a development rebate of 25% of the cost of all new plant and machinery installed for business purposes instead of the then existing initial depreciation allowance of 20%.
Calcutta v. Sri Bibhuti Bhusan Dutt(1) and submitted that it has taken a view different from the one taken by the Gujarat High Court even in regard to the nature of normal 'depreciation allowance.
It is not neces- sary for us to examine in this case the exact nature of the normal depreciation allowance and whether it is deductible from the profits of a person while determining his commer- cial profits.
The words "as are liable to be taxed under the Act" are not there in the definition and it would not, in our opinion, be permissible to so construe the clause as if those words were a part of that clause.
Under clause (e) an advance or loan or money to a shareholder by a pri- vate Company has been directed to be treated as dividend to the extent to which the Company possessed accumulated profits.
For the purpose of distribu- tion of the dividend the amount of development rebate could form part of the profits of the Company; a fortiori, it would be so far the purposes of clause (e) also.
In clauses (a) to (d) of section 2(6A) of the 1922-Act so also in the corresponding clauses of section 2(22) of the 1961-Act the expression "accumulated profits" is qualified by the expression "whether capitalised or not".
Even under the 1961 Act distribution of bonus shares to the equity shareholders after capitalising the profits in accordance with law is not to be a deemed dividend although distribu- tion of such shares to preference shareholders is.
Lord Herscheil in the case of Ann Bouch and Wil- liam Bouch v. William Bouch Sprou(1) was considering as to what was the nature and substance of the transaction in question in that case.
It is admitted on both sides that there was bad 290 blood in the village Dhankoli between a caste known as Baories on one side and three other castes of the village namely, Jats, Dhobis and Khaties on the other.
Their case is that the enmity is due to the fact that the villagers decided not to employ the Baories for watch and ward work in the village as they suspected that the Baories were responsible for certain thefts that had occurred there.
This was resented by the Baories and the allegation is that the Baories were responsible for the fight and attacked some of the others in the village and that led to a fight; but none of the appellants was concerned with it.
One group consisting of 25 persons were charged under section 325/149 of the Indian Penal Code for intentionally beating, along with the other accused, 1. Chhotiya 2. Seruri 3. Parsia 4. Mana 5. Govinda and 6. Ganesh.
These twenty five were acquitted and we are not concerned with them except to note that they were not concerned with that part of the occurrence which we have set out as steps 6 and 7 above.
Five of the eleven are said to 293 have beaten them with "swords and lathis"; another five "with lathis, etc." while the eleventh, Sukha, is said to have fired at Parsia and Mana "as a result of which they fell down".
On this part of the case, the learned Sessions Judge found that " whatever beating was done was done immediately after the scuffle between Chhotiya and Parsia and Sukha and Gumana and Gumana and Naraina, and those accused who had arrived on the spot.
Counsel for the State, however, contended that this passage refers to the second instigation which is said to have been given after the eleven had chased and beaten Lacbhuri and returned to finish off the others who were lying on the ground.
The first was because "Ladia (P.W. 11) did not state in his statement before the police that after beating Lachhuri, when ten or eleven persons had returned then at the instigation of Sukha and Gumana the injured were again beaten to death".
It is claimed that the accused had looked after Lakshmi well till the birth of their first child, which was a girl and he was not happy with the girl child and thereafter started ill-treating Lakshmi, apart from which, he was also demanding dowry and on that pretext, he used to assault her continuously.
It is the complainant's further case that in this regard, she along with her son Ramakrishna and Goudappa Patil went to the house of accused at Suntan village and had advised the accused not to ill-treat Lakshmi by demanding money, as they could ill- afford any such dowry.
Insofar as the offence punishable under section 306 of the IPC, is concerned, again would require the prosecution to establish the circumstance that there was instigation by the appellant on Lakshmi to commit suicide and that he had intentionally driven her and his daughter to commit suicide.
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal is right in law in directing the TPO to apply RPT filter of 15% by superimposing the decisions of the Tribunal in other cases without going into specific facts of the taxpayer and without adducing the basis for arriving at the 15% cut off for RPT filters?
We find that the assessee has brought on record sufficient evidence to establish that this company is functionally dis- similar and different from the assessee and hence is not comparable and the finding rendered in the case of Trilogy E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2007-08 is applicable to this year also.
On the other hand, the appeals of the present tenor as to whether the comparables have been rightly picked up or not, Filters for arriving at the correct list of comparables have been rightly applied or not, do not in our considered opinion, give rise to any substantial question of law.
The trial Court, after hearing arguments, perusing oral and documentary evidence on record, came to a conclusion that the prosecution brought home the guilt to the Accused for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 302, 307, 114, 506, 504 read with section 149 of IPC.
The bone of contention of the defence is that as all the independent eye witnesses have not supported the case of prosecution, the trial Court erred in convicting the accused for the alleged offences solely on the basis of interested testimony of the witnesses who are related to deceased and the complainant.
P.W-1 has deposed that his father-Siddappa died about 14 years back prior to the incident and his senior uncle-Basappa and his father though living in the same house of Siddalingappa, they had separate mess; whereas other 6 sons including the deceased Mallappa and Nagappa were living together with Siddalingappa and they had a common mess.
Since then, Accused No.10/Mallawwa used to abuse the family members of the complainant, in vulgar language, whenever they went in front of her house; when P.W3/Kasturi was proceeding towards the land; Accused Nos.1 and 3 teased and abused her in vulgar language and also restrained her from proceeding further. She informed the incident to the family members.
Again, on 30.8.2005, at about 7.00 a m, when the complainant was going to attend nature's call, Accused Nos.1 to 9 were armed with long and axes etc., came along with other accused namely Accused Nos.10,11,12,13,14 and 15 and challenged the complainant and his family members and attempted to kill the complainant and his family members.
Though there is no mention in the complaint about the overt acts by Accused No.8, the evidence of the eye witnesses is sufficient to hold that all nine accused ( namely Nos.1 to 9), in pursuance of the common object and at the instigation of Accused No.10/Mallawwa, they have killed Ratnavva, Siddalingappa, Nagappa and Mallappa, within half an hour.
In the decision reported in (2011)10 SCC 389, supra, Apex Court has held that the appellant/Accused would not be a menace to society and no reason to believe that the appellant cannot be reformed or rehabilitated or would constitute a continued threat to society and it is not the `rarest of the rare case' causing for extreme penalty of death.
In the decision reported in (2011)13 SCC 706, supra, the Apex Court has held that murder committed in a very brutal and inhuman fashion alone cannot justify death sentence and in the absence of any evidence to show that the appellant was a continuing threat to society or was beyond reform and rehabilitation, death sentence cannot be sustained.
The Sales Tax Officerconsidered that the account books were not dependable and,after rejecting them as well as the returns, proceeded toestimate the gross turnover by adopting a figure by pureguess, without reference to any evidence or material, andmade the assessment under s. 10 (2) (b) of the Act.
The Board expressedthe view that the finding of the Sales Tax Officer and the Commissioner that the books of account maintained by the assessee were not dependable was a finding of fact which could not be interfered with in revision ; -therefore the assessing officer was bound to assess to' the best of his judgment.
The provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act are in pari materia with the provisions of the Act under our consideration, the main scheme of the relevant provisions of the two Acts being similar in nature, though the wording of the provisions is not exactly the same.
In the case under our consideration, the question which was referred to the High Court related to the assessments made under s. 10(2)(b) of the Act; in other words, the question related to those four quarters only for which the assessments were made under s. 10(2)(b).
At one place in its judgment, the High Court referred to a slight inaccuracy in the question framed, but it did not reframe the question so as to widen its scope and include the three quarters for which assessments were made under s. 10(4) of the Act.
That expression is perhaps a little ambiguous, but read in the context of the statement of the case, the question can only mean this: can the assessing authority adopt a figure of gross turnover by pure guess and without referring to any materials on which the figure is based ?
The High Court applied the same analogy and on that footing held that there being no difference between an assessment under cl.(b) of sub-s. (2) and an assessment under sub-s. (4) of s.10 of the Act, the answer to the question must be in the affirmative.
The assessing authorities further pointed out that there was a discrepancy between the return filed for the quarter ending June 30, 1946, and the accounts filed in support of it; the return showed a gross turnover of Rs.2,28,370-12-0 while the accounts revealed a gross turnover of Rs. 1,48,204.
These and similar orders do not show that the assessment was made with reference to any evidence or material; on the contrary, they show that having rejected the books of account, the assessing authorities indulged in -pure guess and made an assessment without reference-to any evidence or any material at all.
Secondly, learned counsel for the respondent has referred us to several decisions on which the High Court relied and has argued that on the basis of those decisions, it must be held that the answer given by the High Court to the question referred to it was a correct answer.
Lord Russell of Killowen in delivering the judgment of their Lordships made the following observations as respects a "best of judgment " assessment within the meaning of s. 23 (4) of the Indian Income-tax Act: " The officer is to make an assessment to the best of his judgment against a person who is in default as regards supplying information.
In answering that question in the affirmative, the High Court has given a carte blanche to the Sales Tax authorities and has, in our opinion, misdirected itself as to the true scope and effect of cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
Their Lordships observed: 'But it appears to them that it was clearly competent for the Income-tax Officer in the circumstances of the present case to accept the return as a valid return and proceed to assessment under section 23 (1) or section 23 (3) as the case might be.
Treating the withdrawals by              the appellant as advances by the company to him and finding              the highest amount of advance to the assessee to be within              the total figure of accumulated profits as arrived at by              him, he directed the addition of the advance to the asses-              see's income as dividend under s. 2(6A)(e) of the Act.
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner modi- fied the figure of the deemed dividend calculated by the Income-tax Officer and took the highest amount of advance made (I) 76 I.T.R. 369.641 to the assessee by the Company at a particular point of time in the year in question as the amount of dividend taxable in the hands of the assessee.
It may just be stated here that according to the 1922 Act only the accumulated profits possessed by the company at the. end of the corresponding previous year had to be taken into account unlike the corresponding provision engrafted in section 2(22) of the Income-tax Act, 1961--hereinafter referred to as the 1961 Act, read with Explanation II thereto.
Counsel submitted that it is in the nature of a depreciation allowance and is identical with initial depre- ciation; it should, therefore, be deducted from the commer- cial profits of the Company as held by the Gujarat High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay North v. Viramgam Mills Co. Ltd. (4).
The Taxation Enquiry Commission in its report aforesaid had recommended in Chapter VII, page 98 of Vol. II for assisting the expansion and development of :productive enterprise by allowing them a proportion of new investment in fixed assets to be charged to current costs of production thereby permitting the taxable profits to be brought down to that extent.
We do not find any warrant for accepting the contention of Mr. Rajgopal that the initial depreciation or the develop- ment rebate was allowed as 'an extra deductible allowance of business expenses in the year of installation of new machin- ery for meeting the ever increasing costs of its replacement in future years.
It held that it could not form part of the accumulated past profits as in the words of Wixon (vide Wixon's Accounts Hand Book) it was "the estimat- ed 645 expiration of asset value" or as observed by Paton in his Accountants' Hand Book, Third edition it is an out-of-pocket cost as any other cost.
The purpose of section 2 (6A) of the 1922 Act corresponding to section 2(22) of the 1961 Act is to include within the term "dividend" for the purpose of taxation certain distri- butions or payments of certain items of money or the like as deemed dividend for the purpose of taxation.
The "capitalisation of profits". says the learned author, means "that profits which otherwise are available for distribution among the shareholders are not divided among them in cash, but that the shareholders are allotted further shares--or debentures--which are paid up wholly or in part out of' those profits.
For the reasons stated above, we hold that the develop- ment rebate reserve created by the Company by duly charging the amount of profit and loss account although liable as a deduction under the 1922Act, constituted accumulated profits of the Company Within the meaning of section 2(6A)(e).
The State did not appeal against the acquittals of the twenty five under section 325/149 nor did it appeal against the acquittals of two of the eleven who were charged under section 302/149 but it appealed against the acquittals of the remaining nine who had been convicted under section 325/149.
But the reason why we have set out these charges at some length is because counsel for the appellants argued that the prosecution case is that there were two separate assemblies, one of twenty five persons to beat six specific persons and another of eleven to kill them in three groups.
He argued that the twenty five who constituted the first assembly have all been acquitted; that the only material from which an unlawful assembly can be inferred in the other case is the instigation of Sukha and Gumana for a second time after they bad returned from chasing Lachhuri.
He also rejected the prosecution version that the incidents occurred in two parts, first with a bigger assembly that beat all the accused and next with a smaller one that ran after Lachhuri and beat her and then returned to beat the others to death at the instigation of Sukha and Gumana.
She had performed the marriage of her elder daughter Laxmi six years prior to the complaint.
In this regard, it is the complainant's case that Laxmi had repeatedly told her about the ill-treatment.
The complainant however had consoled her daughter and had assured her that she would advise the accused to take better care of her.
Based on which, a case was registered on 8.3.2008 and a report was submitted to the Court of the JMFC.
Whether the prosecution proves that accused has given ill-treatment to deceased Laxmi by demanding her to bring money from her parental house?
The only evidence on which the prosecution and the court below however placed reliance is on the evidence PWs.8 to 11.
It is their own case that Laxmi had on and off informed them of such ill-treatment.
He was not in any way related to the complainant or her family and he had no ill-will against the accused.
It is only to bring the case within the scope of Section 498A that such an allegation is made.
The court concluded that by no stretch of imagination, the ingredients of abetment are attracted on the statement of the deceased.
Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being spelt out.
The court has opined that there should be intention to provoke, incite or encourage the doing of an act by the latter.
Therefore, it is impossible to lay down any straitjacket formula in dealing with such cases.
Each case has to be decided on the basis of its own facts and circumstances.
Abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing.
Without a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide, conviction cannot be sustained.
In that view of the matter, the finding of the court below based entirely on the evidence of PW.8 to 11 cannot be sustained.
Learned counsel for the Appellants-Revenue Mr.E.I.Sanmathi submits that he does not press the substantial question of law No.1.
We consider it appropriate to quote the relevant portion of the order of Tribunal, which runs as hereunder:- "12.
We further note that the functional comparability has been examined in detailed by Vs. M/s.
For the reasons given above, we are of the view that if the functions actually performed Vs. M/s.
M/s. Tesco Hindustan Centre Pvt. Ltd 8/11 enjoys the benefits of scale and market leadership.
In this view of the matter, we hold that this company ought to be omitted from the set of comparable companies.
A substantial quantum of international trade and transactions depends upon the fair and quick judicial dispensation in such cases.
The appeal filed by the Appellants-Revenue is liable to be dismissed and it is dismissed accordingly.
It is registered under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in Criminal R C No.11/2009.
As required under sub-section (1) of Section 366 of Cr.PC, learned trial Judge has submitted the records for confirmation of Death sentence.
The complainant-Suresh Siddappa Wodeyar (PW-1) and his family members are permanent residents of Murkibhavi village in Bailhongal Taluk.
The complainant's father has 7 brothers and all of them were residing together in the same place.
It is also alleged that accused No.1/Sundresh and accused No.3/Sidlingappa were often teasing P.W.3 and blocking her way whenever she went to lands.
He informed about the incident to his family members, for which they told him that a complaint would be lodged on the next day.
But on the other hand Accused No.2 assaulted Ratnawwa with kyota on left side of her chest and left arm.
The prosecution went to trial by examining as many as 48 witnesses and got marked 66 documents and 38 Material Objects.
He further submitted that the case on hand cannot be treated as a `rarest of rare cases' to award death sentence.
It is also contended that in the FIR, there was no allegation against accused No.8/Irappa.
Accused No.7/Chandranaik and his wife-accused No.10/Mallawwa were residing in the house nearby to the complainant.
Accused No.10/Mallawwa is the sister of Accused No.5/Rajshekhar, Accused No.9/Shankreppa, Accused No.12/Basavanneppa and Accused No.13/Nagappa.
It is pertinent to mention that the weapon 'long' is called as 'kyota' in Kannada.
The alleged abettors namely Accused Nos.10 to 15 are aged about 44, 45, 56, 52, 57 and 48 years, respectively.
Merely because those witnesses have not deposed in support of the prosecution, case of the prosecution cannot be rejected in toto.
Therefore,the evidence of P.Ws.1, 2,3,4,5 and 32, who are the eye witnesses cum related to the complainant require to be scrutinized carefully.
In our view, there is no strong ground to reject their evidence in toto for the following reasons.
He has deposed in evidence that the deceased Siddalingappa had 8 sons and 2 daughters.
She informed about the incident to her family members including deceased persons; they enquired with the Accused.
P.W1 has deposed that he was hearing and also watching the scene from inside the house.
She seized the said Scooter under a panchanama in the presence of P.Ws.16 and 17 as per Ex.P12.
She has sent 47 sealed articles to FSL, Belgaum for chemical examination and filed charge sheet on 8.3.2006.
Nothing worthwhile is elicited in her cross-examination with regard to the evidence given before the trial Court.
Ex.P.51-rough sketch of scene of crime, shows the place of crime and the place where the dead bodies were lying.
There is no major omissions and contradictions elicited in the cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses.
The dead bodies lying on the street can be seen in the photographs at Exs.P26 to 29, taken at the scene of crime.
The contention of the learned counsel for the accused that Accused No.9 was falsely implicated in the case falls to the ground.
The prosecution has proved that all the above said four persons died an homicidal death.
The trial Court has classified the case of murder as 'rarest of rare cases' and awarded death sentence to Accused Nos.1 to 9.
The facts to be considered for awarding death sentence are the magnitude and the manner and brutality.
In the above-said case i.e., Brijendrasingh's case, the Apex Court has given the cases falling under the category of aggravating and mitigating circumstances.
II. Appeal in Crl. A. No. 2516 of 2009 filed by accused No.1, 4 to 6, 8, 9 and Crl.
Accused are entitled for set-off of the period of detention undergone by them under section 428 of Cr.P C. X.
The Sales Tax Officer passed separate orders assessing the tax for all the seven quarters simultaneously on October 9, 1947.
The Board of Revenue was then moved in revision but, by its order dated July 31, 1948, the Board refused to interfere.
The assessee then moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal from the said judgment and order of the High Court.
Having thus indicated the precise scope of the question referred to the High Court, we proceed now to consider the main contention of the assessee.
We must first read the relevant provisions of the statuteunder which the assessments were made.
These provisions are similar to the provisions contained in s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax Act.
It is clear to us that, understood in that sense, the High Court has answered the question incorrectly.
The decision is that of Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v.Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal(1).
In our view, the aforesaid observations clearly show that the High Court was in error in answering the question in the affirmative.
We have examined the assessment orders in question, which form part of the statement of the case.
Having rejected the returns and the books of account, the assessing authorities proceeded to estimate the gross turnover.
In so estimating the gross turnover, they did not refer to any materials at all.
On the contrary, they indulged in a pure guess and adopted a figure without reference to any evidence or any material at all.
Sales Tax Officer said: "I reject the dealer's accounts and estimate a gross turnover of Rs. 4,00,000.
This the assessing authorities were not entitled to do under cl. (b) of sub.s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
The first decision is the Privy Council decision in Income- tax Commissioner v. Badridas Ramrai Shop, Akola (2).
He must not act dishonestly, or vindictively or capriciously, because he must exercise judgment in the matter.
In the case under our consideration, the assessing officer did not do so, and that is where the grievance of the assessee arises.
There again, the estimate made was not a pure guess and was based on some materials which the Income-tax Officer had before him.
The last decision to which we have been referred is the decision in Malik Damsaz Khan v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1).
For these reasons we hold that the High Court, was in error in answering the question referred to it.
The appeal is accordingly allowed and the judgment and order of the High Court are set aside.
The appellant will be entitled to its costs both in this Court and in the High Court.
The appellant-assessee was a shareholder in a company              in which the public were not substantially interested within              the meaning of s. 23A.
The              Tribunal held that the development rebate was not liable to              be treated as accumulated profits; but, on reference.
Thenormal depreciation and the additional depreciation arepermitted to be deducted from the written down value.
Section 2(6A)(c)provides that 'dividend' includes any distribution to theshareholders liquidation to the extent to which the distri-bution is attributable to accumulated profits.
Merely transferringthe sum to the development reserve account by debiting it tothe profit and loss account did not amount to capitalisationof profits.
The decision of the Tribunal was partly in favour of the assessee and partly in favour of the Revenue.
Four questions were referred-one at the instance of the Commissioner of Income-tax and three at the instance of the assessee.
He could not and did not attack the decision of the High Court as respects questions 2, 3 and 4.
We proceed to state the necessary facts for determina- tion of the above question only.
The assessee in his accounting year 1957-58 had withdrawn con- siderable amounts of money from the Company's account.
It was found that the aggregate amount of develop- ment rebate allowed to the Company under section 10(2)(vi-b) was Rs. 2,36,470/-.
We shall do well to quote all the subclauses (a) to (e) of section 2(6A) of the 1922-Act.
In the context --sometimes it means the assessable profits and sometimes it means the commercial profits.
The fundamen- tal meaning is the amount of gain made by the business during the year.
This can only be ascer- tained by a comparison of the assets of the busi- ness at the two dates ......
There is no definable relation between the assessable income and the profits of a business concerned in a commercial sense.
We may add that Mr. Rajgopal could not and did not seriously dispute this proposition of law.
By and large, the cost of replacements is allowed as deductions in lieu of depreciation in respect of certain assets.
Obviously, it was by way of an incentive for the new structures or the new installations.
Development rebate was provided in clause (vi-b) with effect from 1st April, 1955 by the Fi- nance Act of 1955.
There was an over-lapping period of about two years in relation to the allowance of initial depreciation or the development rebate.
But as provided for in clause (vi) an assessee could not have' had both even in regard to that period.
It was not a recurring allowance for the subsequent years like; the allowance of the normal depreciation or the additional depreciation.
Although it does not form part of the assessable profits, undoubtedly it does form part of the commercial profits.
The advance or the loan, by a legal fiction, is to resemble the actual dividend.
What is the purpose of this difference in the phraseology of the various clauses of sub-section (6A) ?
The reason is -not far to seek and yet not helpful to the assessee in this case.
The profits of a Company can be capitalised in accord- ance with the Articles of Association and the law.
On the capitalisation of the profits they cease to be profits in the hands of the Company.
The nature of the asset is changed although it does not make any difference in the total assets of the Company.
The most common example of capitalisation of profits is by issuance of bonus shares to the shareholders.
Clause (a) to (d) were intended by the Legislature to cover the cases of accumulated profits even though they may be capitalised.
But the Legislature did not intend to rope in the capitalised profits in clause (e).
To the extent the profits have been capitalised the Company cannot be said to possess any accu- mulated profits.
To the same effect is the statement of the law to be found in Palmer's Company Law, twenty-first edition page 673.
We accordingly affirm the decision of the High Court and dis- miss this appeal but in the circumstances make no orders as to costs.
This was said to be the result of a riot that occurred in the village Dhankoli.
The remainder were all charged under section 325/149 of the Indian Penal Code and eleven were also charged under section 302/149.
The learned Sessions Judge acquitted twenty five of the charge under section 325/149 and convicted nine.
He acquitted all the eleven who were charged under section 302/149 but convicted nine of them under section 325/149.
The High Court dismissed the appeal of the convicts and allowed that of the State.
The case for the prosecution is that this was due to a dispute over a field that belonged to some of the Jats.
There were some court proceedings about the field in which Parsia (one of the Baories who was killed) had appeared against the Jats.
The accused Sukha, Gumana, Begla and Govinda were in particular interested in this field and so bore a grudge against Parsia.
From this point it will be convenient to divide the narrative into a series of numbered steps.
They returned to their village about 11 p.m. and ran into the accused Sukha and Gumana (both Jats).
However, on 7.3.2008, she had received a message from Jaganath of Suntan village, that at about 10 p.m., her daughter Laxmi and grand-daughter Bhagewati had died of drowning in a well.
The complainant, Ramakrishna and Goudappa Patil did rush to the Suntan village and saw the dead body of her daughter and grand-daughter and then lodged a complaint against the accused.
An inquest mahazar was conducted of the deceased and the bodies were sent for post-mortem and after taking further steps, a charge sheet was submitted against the accused as on 17.9.2008.
On conclusion of the trial and on examination of the accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the court below had framed the following points for consideration:- 1.
PW.8 is the mother of the deceased Laxmi, PW.9 is the brother, PW.10 is the sister and PW.11 is an elder of the village.
First of all, those witnesses did not have any direct knowledge nor is it their case that they have seen the appellant ill-treating the deceased or instigate her to commit suicide.
As has been laid down in a catena of decisions, the ill-treatment by the husband within the four walls of the house would hardly be witnessed by others.
The fact of ill-treatment is narrated first hand by the deceased time and again to the complainant and others, as consistently stated by them.
In Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chhattisgarh, (2001)9 SCC 618, a three-judge bench of the apex court had occasion to deal with a case of similar nature.
In an argument between a husband and wife, the husband had stated that "you are free to do whatever you wish and go wherever you like".
The apex court, in that circumstance, examined the different shades of the meaning of "instigation" as hereunder:- "20. Instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do `an act'.
To satisfy the requirement of instigation though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes instigation must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence.
It is also possible that sheer frustration of not having borne a male child, which the appellant is alleged to have desired, may have also driven her to commit suicide.
Even if it was her case that she was being harassed and ill-treated, there was no such allegation of harassment and ill-treatment of the young child.
We, therefore, direct that these two entities be excluded from the list of 10 comparables finally taken by the AO/TPO as per the direction of the DRP?.
Since we have directed the A.O/TPO to exclude these companies from the set of comparables therefore the TPO is directed to compute the ALP on the basis of remaining comparables". 5.
This Crl. R C is filed under Section 366 of the Code ofCriminal Procedure, for confirmation of death sentenceawarded to accused Nos.1 to 9 by the Presiding Officer, FastTrack Court-II & Addl.
By the impugned judgment dated 16.12.2008, learned Sessions Judge convicted all the 15 accused persons for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 307, 302, 506, 504 read with section 149/114 of IPC.
It is alleged that accused No.10/Mallawwa (wife of accused No.7/Chandranaik) used to taunt and challenge the complainant's family members and threatened with dire consequences if they lodged a complaint with Police.
On 30.8.2005 (Tuesday) at about 6.30 AM, when the complainant-P.W1 was going to answer nature's call, Accused No.10/Mallawwa instigated the Accused to kill the complainant-P.W.1.
Thus, the Accused assaulted Siddlingappa, Mallappa and Nagappa (grand father and uncles of the complainant) with koyta, axe, sickle, jambia, stick and stone.
The Police registered a case in Crime No.72/2005 on 30.8.2005 at about 8.15 A.M., for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 302, 109 and 506 r/w section 149 of IPC.
Since the offence under Sections 307 and 302 of IPC are exclusively triable by a Court of Sessions, the case was committed to Sessions Court, where it was registered as SC No.28/2006.
The trial Court, after hearing arguments, framed charges against all the 15 persons for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 302, 307, 114, 506, 504 read with Section 149 of IPC.
He prayed that the impugned judgment of conviction and sentence awarded against the Accused may be set aside and the all the accused may acquitted of the offences alleged them.
At the very outset, it must be mentioned that the alleged independent eye witnesses - P.Ws.6 to 15, 20 to 24 have not supported the case of prosecution.
Accused Nos.1 to 9 are aged about 28 years, 26 years, 24 years, 21 years, 38 years, 30 years, 51 years, 18 years and 53 years, respectively.
All the independent eye witnesses, viz., P.Ws.6 to 15, P.Ws.20 to 24 have not supported the case of prosecution for the reasons best known to them.
According to P.W-1, about 1 year prior to the incident, when P.W3/Kasturi (w/o P.W1's elder brother-Ulavappa Siddappa Wadeyar) had been to fetch water, Accused Nos.1 and 3 poured water and pulled her.
It is the case of the prosecution that on 30.8.2005 at about 6.30 a.m., all the Accused started chasing the complainant; he made hue and cry and went in side his house.
It is in his evidence that after assaulting his wife Ratnavva, grandfather-Siddlingappa, uncles Nagappa and Mallappa, all the accused chased him and PW-5 Maruthi with an intention to kill them.
Further, she has seized axe (M.O-12), blue colour shirt (M.O- 47) and while lungi (M.O-48) at instance of Accused No.1 under a panchanama in the presence of the above-said panchas.
Likewise she has seized one long (M.O-19), shirt (M.O-50) and black and yellow checks lungi (M.O-51) at the instance of Accused NO4, under a panchayama (Ex.P-13).
She has recorded voluntary statement of Accused NO.5 and accused No.7 as per Ex.P65; Ex.P66 respectively and recovered their clothes worn at the time of incident and weapons used in the commission of crime.
She has deposed that on 16.9.2005, the ASI produced accused No.13/Nagappa Udakeri before her and she interrogated and produced him before the court for remand.
Ex.P-47/FSL report reveals that 47 articles were subjected to chemical analysis and all the articles except two articles viz., sample mud and lungi were stained with blood.
The Apex Court has laid down the principles to determine whether this case falls within the scope of rarest of rare cases for imposition of death sentence.
The impugned order of sentence made against Accused Nos.1 to 10 for offences punishable under Section 114,143,147,148, 307 (on two counts), 504,506 read with section 149 is also confirmed.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 8, 1952, of the Patna High Court in Misc. Judicial Cases Nos. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 -of 1949.
The assessee was assessed to sales tax for seven quarters ending December 31, 1945, March, 31, 1946, June 30, 1946, September 30, 1946, December 31, 1946, March 31, 1947 and June 30, 1947, respectively.
The assessee then moved in appeal the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Tirhut Division, but the Commissioner dismissed the appeals by his order dated February 23, 1948.
The Board was then moved under s. 21 of the Act to refer certain questions of law to the High Court of Patna which, the assessee contended, arose out of its order.
The Board of Revenue then stated a case, and the High Court disposed of the reference by answering the question in the affirmative by its judgment and order dated January 8, 1952.
Before we proceed to consider this contention of the assessee, it is necessary to clear the ground by delimiting the precise scope of the question referred to the High Court.
Under sub-s. (5) of s. 21 the High Court hears the reference and decides the question of law referred to it, giving in a judgment the grounds of its decision.
The question did not relate to the three quarters for which the assessee had filed no returns and assessments were made under s. 10(4) of the Act.
The question, as it stood and as it was answered by the High Court, did not relate to the propriety or legality of the assessments made under s. 10(4) of the Act.
In the question referred to the High Court, the expression used is, "make an assessment on any figure of gross turnover without giving any basis to justify the adoption of that figure".
The High Court went into an elaborate consideration, by way of comparison and contrast, of sub-s.(4) and el. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
With regard to the corresponding provision in sub-s. (3) of s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax Act, there is a decision of thisCourt which, in our opinion, answers the question before us.
It is not necessary to repeat those reasons, because we must accept the finding of fact arrived at by the assessing authorities that the returns and the books of account were not dependable.
The decision of the Lahore High Court in Seth Gurmukh Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab (3) was specifically approved by this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills' case (2).
The decision does not lay down that it is open to the Income-tax Officer to make an estimate on pure guess and without reference to any material or evidence before him.
But the initial depreciation or the development rebate isnot a recurring allowance for the subsequent years like thenormal depreciation allowance provided in s. 10(2)(vi) orthe additional depreciation provided in s. 10(2)(vi-a).
In TeaEstate India Pvt. Ltd. v. C.I.T., W. Bengal (103 ITR 785) itwas held that accumulated profits in cl. (c) include devel-opment Tebate.
If for the purpose of distribution theamount of development rebate could form part of the accumu-lated profits of the company, a fortiori, it would be so farthe purpose of cl. (e) also.
That is, to the extent the profits have been capita-lised in accordance with the law and its Articles of Associ-ation, a company cannot be said to possess any accumulatedprofits.
Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras v.K. Srinivasan andothers 50 ITR 786 approved.       Sheth Haridas Achratlal v. Commissioner of Income tax,Bombay North, Kutch and Saurashtra, Baroda 27 ITR 684referred to.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2-2-1970 of the Bombay High Court in I.T. Reference No. 54/63) V. Rajagopal and A.G. Pudissery for the Appellant.
This is an appeal by an assessee on grant of a certificate of fitness by the Bombay High Court under section 66A (2) of the Income-tax Act, 1922-hereinafter referred to as the 1922 Act.
We are concerned in this case with his assessment for the assessment year 1958-59-corresponding accounting year being 1st April, 1957 to 31st March, 1958.
The Income tax Tribu- nal made a composite order disposing of the assessee's 640 appeals in respect of two assessment years i.e. 1958-59 and 1959-60.
In respect of the assessment year 1958-59, a reference under section 66(1) of the 1922 Act was made by the Tribunal to the High Court.
The High Court by' its judgment under appeal which is reported in Commissioner of Income-tax (Central), Bombay v. P.K. Badiani(1) has answered almost all the questions.
But he strenuously urged before us for reversal of the High Court judgment in regard to question No. 1 which was re- ferred at the instance of the Commissioner.
He had a mutual open and current account in the books of the Company--the accounting year of which was the calendar year i.e. commencing from January and ending in December.
The Income-tax Officer' treated the withdrawals made by the assessee as advances or loans given by the Company to him and taxed the amount as dividend under section 2(6A)(e) of the 1922 Act.
The said amount was within the total figure of accumulated profits in the hands of the Company at the relevant time, i.e. 31st December, 1956.
The said amount had been debited in the profit and loss account of the Company for the account- ing year 1966 leaving a balance of Rs. 6,641/- only in the profit and loss account.
The Appellate Assistant Commis- sioner of Income-tax treated the entire sum of Rs.2,43,111/- as the amount of accumulated profits possessed by the Company.
It is a well known concept of the taxation law that the term 'profits' in the various sections of the Income-tax Acts have not got the same meaning.
In Palmer's Company Law, Twenty First Edition at page 662 the distinc- tion between profits, divisible profits and profits avail- able for dividend has been pointed out.
Computation of income for purposes of assessment of income-tax is based on a variety of artificial rules and takes into account several fictional receipts, deductions and allowances ..............
The same view has been expressed by this Court in Gobald Motor Service (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Ma- dras(3).
It would appear from the report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission 1953-54 Vol. II as to what is the nature of the depreciation allowance; vide Chapter V, page 74.
It would thus be seen that by way of an incentive for installation of new machinery and plants initial depreciation allowance of 20% was replaced by a develop- ment'rebate of 25%.
But it was, like grant of export rebate by way of incentive to make more exports, in the nature of an incentive for setting up new machineries and plants.
In our opinion it was meant merely to reduce the tax liability of the assessee in order to give him an incentive to instal new machineries or plants.
Says the learned author in the above book at p. 746 thus: "There is still widespread misapprehension as to the precise significance of the depreciation charge.
It is often deemed a more or less imagi- nary and hypothetical :element, and is sharply contrasted with the regular "out-of-pocket" oper- ating costs.
As a matter of fact there is nothing at all imaginary about depreciation as a cost of business operation and at bottom it is just as much 'an out-of-pocket cost as any other.
The deprecia- tion charge is merely the periodic operating aspect of fixed-asset costs, and there is no doubt as to the reality of such costs.
The Calcut- ta case seems to be one of a property-holding company, the profits of which were assessable under section 9 wherein the question of depreciation was not relevant.
The view expressed by the Gujarat High Court seems to be reasonably plausible and correct and for the purposes of this case we shall assume it to be so.
Yet, we do not feel persuaded to accept the argument of the assessee and equate the initial depreciation or the develop- ment rebate with the normal depreciation.
In our opinion such an allowance is in no sense a deductible item of cost or expenditure in the process of settlement of the commer- cial profits.
It has been stated at page 794: "The acceptance of the contention would necessarily postulate reading in section 2(6A)(c) the words "accumulated profits as are liable to be taxed under the Act".
During the course of the arguments of this appeal, our attention was directed to a new facet of the question under consideration and that is this.
Mere transferring the sum of Rs. 2,36,470/- by debiting it to the profit and loss account to the development reserve account did not amount to the capitalisation of profits.
Buckley on the Companies Acts, thirteenth edi- tion, has pointed out at page 907 "Profits carried to re- serve do not cease to be profits unless and until they are effectually capitalised".
The learned and the noble Lord said at page 398: "I think we must look both at the 'substance and form of the transaction ........
When a crowd assembles and there is an uproar and people are            killed and injured, it is only natural for others to rush to            the scene with whatever arms they can snatch.
Some may have            an unlawful motive but others may not, and in such            circumstances it is impossible to say that they were all            motivated by a common intention with prior concert.
The High Court therefore had two appeals before it, one against the acquittals of nine persons under section 302/149 and the other by the same persons against their convictions under section 325/149.
The convictions of these nine persons were accordingly altered to ones under section 302/149 of the Indian Penal Code and the lesser sentence of transportation was given to each.
The Appellants-Revenue have filed this appeal u/s.260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, raising purportedly certain substantial questions of law arising from the order of the ITAT, Bangalore Bench `B', Bangalore, dated 25.01.2017 passed in IT(TP)A No.191/Bang/2015 (Dy.Commissioner of Income Tax vs. M/s.Tesco Hindustan Service Centre Pvt. Ltd.,) for A.Y.2010-11. 2.
We find that the DRP has given the details of RPT of all the 10 companies at page 11 and therefore the following three companies will be excluded as not satisfying the tolerance range of 15% RPT filter. (i) Fortune Infotech Ltd.  RPT 25% (ii) Icra Online Ltd.      RPT 19.61% (iii) Sundaram Business Services Ltd. RPT 29.44% 13.
Further in the case of Acropetal Technologies Ltd. (Seg.) the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Kodiak Networks (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in IT(TP)A No.1540/Bang/2012 has considered the functional comparability and found that this company is not comparable with a captive service provider.
At the out set, we note that the comparability of M/s Eclerx Services Ltd. has been examined by the Special Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Maersk Global Centres (India) (P) Ltd (supra) in para 82 83 as under: 82. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 83.
All appellants are                                          AppellantsResiding at Murkibhavi,Tq. Bailhongal,Dist: Belgaum.(By Sri R B Naik, Sr. Counsel, for Smt. Vijetha R Naik   & J Basavaraj, Adv., for appellants)ANDThe State of Karnataka(Through Nesargi Police Station),Represented by itsState Public Prosecutor,High Court of Karnataka,Bangalore.
By order dated 16.12.2008 made in SC No.28/2006, Fast Track Court-II/Addl. Sessions Judge at Belgaum, seeks confirmation of death sentence awarded against accused Nos.1 to 9 for the offence punishable under Section 302 r/w Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code, on four counts.
Mahazar Witnesses namely PW-16 /Subhash Honnanaik Patil, P.W- 17/Laxman Gangappa Naik, P.W18/Mallesh Basavanneppa Karennavar,  P.W19/Nagappa  Adeveppa             Patteda, P.W27/Mallanaik Sanganaik Baganavar and P.W31/Honappa Yallappa Sattennavar also did not support the case of prosecution.
It is also contended that FIR was registered against 16 persons, but the Investigating Officer, has given up the accused viz., Accused Nos.7/Shivappa Chanabasappa Udakeri, Accused No.10/Raju Siddalingappa Konnanavar and Accused No.13/Siddalingappa Appanna Konnanavar mentioned in the FIR, and filed charge sheet adding three other persons, viz., accused No.9/Shankreppa Chanabasappa Udkeri, Accused No.11/Gowrawwa Nagappa Udkeri and accused No.13/Nagappa Chanabasappa Udkeri.
The evidence of P.W-1/complainant is corroborated by eye witnesses viz., P.W1's sister- P.W2/Bhagawwa N Wadeyar; P.W-1's elder brother's wife/P.W-4-Balawwa; his sister-in-law/P.W3-Kasturi N Wadeyar and his uncles P.W5/Maruti S Wadeyar and P.W- 32/Basappa S Wadeyar.
The impugned order of conviction recorded by the trial court as against the Accused Nos.1 to 10 for the offence punishable under Section 114, 143, 147, 148, 307 (on two counts), 504, 506, 302 r/w Section 149 of IPC, on four counts, is confirmed; V.
VI. Accused Nos.1 to 10 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life (21 years) and pay fine of `10,000/- each, on four counts, in default in payment of fine, to undergo imprisonment for a period of one year, for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 114/149 of IPC; VII.
If the fine amount is recovered, a sum of `50,000/- shall be paid to P.W.1 towards the death of his wife; whereas a sum of `50,000/- shall be paid to the spouse of deceased Siddalingappa, Nagappa and Mallappa or their legal representatives, as the case may be, respectively, as compensation.
BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION:               1958 SCR 37 1957 AIR 810ACT:Sales Tax-Assessee's accounts rejected as unreliable-Assess-ment made on guess without reference to evidence ormaterialValidity-Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1944 (Bihar Act VI of1944),S.I0(2)(b)-Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922),S. 23(3).HEADNOTE:The appellant filed the necessary returns, as required bythe provisions of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1944, andproduced the account books.
He assessed the tax on a taxable turnover of Rs.2,94,000 for each of the five quarters ending December 31, 1945, March 31, 1946, September 30, 1946, December 31, 1946 and March 31, 1947; for the other two quarters ending on June 30, 1946, and June 30, 1947, he assessed the tax on a taxable turnover of Rs. 3,92,000.
Then, the High Court proceeded to consider certain decisions relating to the interpretation of sub-ss. (3) and (4) of s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax Act, and held that there was no difference between an assessment under sub-s.(3) and an assessment under sub-s. (4) of s. 23.
Vaccines boost immunity and thus helps the body fight diseases.
Medicines kill microbes and /or slow their growth.
One should avoid self-medication.
Use sanitary latrines; avoid open air defecation.
Throw waste in dustbins to avoid breeding of flies.
Clean the drains regularly.
Spray insecticide to prevent breeding of mosquitoes.
Try to prevent contamination of drinking water.
The consumption of tabacco, therefore, must be avoided.
Diabetes mellitus is one of the endocrine diseases.
Insulin regulates the level of sugar in our body.
In India, non–communicable diseases cause major health problems.
We need medical help for treatment.
However, efforts should be made to prevent them.
We all require daily 6–8 hours of sound sleep.
One must do 20–30 minutes of physical activity daily to keep fit.
However, these medicines should be taken in the recommended dose and duration as advised by the doctor.
Regularly check the places where water is collected and has the possibilities of mosquito breeding.
Source of water should be away from source of garbage collection /waste disposal site).
The container of drinking water must be kept at a clean and safe place.
People who cannot manage stress and constantly worry about things, are prone to hypertension.
Intake of nicotine either through smoking or chewing tobacco may lead to hypertension and should be avoided.
Consistent use of tobacco, gutkha, khaini, etc. has been linked to various types of cancer.
It is caused due to inadequate secretion of the hormone insulin from pancreas.
Lack of insulin causes increase of sugar in our body leading to the condition called diabetes mellitus.
Common symptoms of this are increase in hunger, frequency of urination, and growing thirst.
We are going to have the highest incidence of diabetes in the world by 2020.
You may have heard about young people having heart attacks and requiring bypass surgery.
We can prevent these, if we adopt a healthy lifestyle right from childhood and continue it throughout life.
Eating a balanced diet helps in the prevention of obesity and other lifestyle diseases.
A large number of infectious diseases can be prevented by taking vaccines at an appropriate time, such as, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, tetanus, rabies, measles, chickenpox, typhoid, etc.
Use of tobacco, both by way of smoking and consuming chewable tobacco in any form directly contributes to heart disease, stroke, chronic lung disease and common cancers.
These are classified as anti-virals, anti-fungals, anti-protozoals and antibiotics according to the group of microbes they act upon.
Patients suffering from such diseases that are communicable should be kept in a clean environment isolated from others.
In addition to taking the prescribed medication, doing regular exercises and taking high fibre diet can help one to control hypertension.
These diseases cause disability, loss of income, disruptions in family environment and poor quality of life in the most productive years.
The balanced diet includes fruits and vegetables, preferably locally available and seasonal, wholegrain products (including pulses), milk and milk products.
Inadequate sleep leads to changes in blood pressure, increase in stress level and disturbance of what is called the biological clock.
People who undertake physical exercise and yoga activites daily keep themselves physically fit, feel happy and do not put on excess weight.
Science is an ever-changing subject.
Science is one of humankind's blessings.
Human beings have benefitted immensely from science.
The study of the environment is known as science.
We use soaps; these are also given by science.
All fertilizers are also given by chemical science.
All the drugs are given by medicinal chemistry.
All vehicles are the invention of science.
Science has made the world a small place.
Have you ever wondered how we manage to stay cool in the face of air conditioning, fans, and coolers?
Humans are naturally curious beings who are interested and curious about the reasons for events.
However, how to study the qualities of a certain species or object was a major concern for all humans.
We use cars, bikes, or bicycles to go from one place to another; these all are inventions of science.
We use LPG gas and stove etc., for cooking; these are all given by science.
Tractor, thresher, drip irrigation system, sprinkler irrigation system, etc., all are given by science.
Science is a systematic and logical study into how the universe works.
It has had a significant part in enhancing the standard of living of mankind.
In every aspect of our lives, science is omnipresent and omnipotent.
Science is the main protagonist in every part of our lives.
There are scientists who have grouped the study of several subjects under the broad discipline of science.
Even the house in which we live is a product of science.
In the field of agriculture, science has made its mark by contributing so much.
In present days machines are available even for sowing the seeds on fields.
The medical field is based entirely on the usage of science.
Tools used in the medical field are also given by science.
You can reach Kashmir to Kanyakumari in just a few hours.
Cycle, scooters, cars, aircraft, etc., all are inventions of science.
We can transport goods easily and faster by the use of machines given by science.
You can talk to anyone anywhere in a fraction of seconds.
Man, as a logical being, has been strange in his pursuit of environmental concerns, which has resulted in several discoveries in various parts of the globe.
Animals, chemicals, the force, the earth, plants, and other subjects are studied in several fields of science such as physics, chemistry, and biology.
Einstein said that “All our science measured against reality, is primitive and childlike - and yet is the most precious thing we have.”
The iron which we use to iron our clothes is an invention of science even the clothes we wear are given by science.
Hamza enjoyed eating healthy food such as fruits and vegetables that contain vitamins that help the body fight germs and infections.
Besides, he was good in studies and got appreciation by his teachers and therefore, he was the teachers’ favourite student.
Ahmed’s father then disclosed that Ahmed was not well so he won’t be coming for a few more days to school due to food poisoning.
They told him that eating nutritious food has a positive effect on our body and it is important to maintain a good diet for our balanced growth.
In a few days he was normal again and he started playing well in sports and got good marks in education.
Now he realised that eating nutritious things protects us from all diseases, and therefore he just had junk food once in a blue moon.
Besides, Ahmed went to Hamza and said, “Thank you for helping me realise not to eat junk food and we should follow a healthy balanced diet.”
Once upon a time there was a person who had a fruit shop, but sales weren't going too well, because people preferred food rather than healthy food.
One day, their mom lovingly explained to them not to eat junk food and told them if they do not stop eating junk food their eye sight will become weak.
One day something unusual happened to Ahmed.
His mum saw a glimpse of him taking the chips.
Suddenly, he had a terrible stomach ache.
All the students were astonished to hear this news.
When Ahmed finally came to school, everybody welcomed him.
Ahmed realised that health is our wealth.
After some days everybody in the town started to feel much better.
That lesson had taught them to not abuse junk food.
On the other hand, Ahmed was neither good in sports nor in studies, and always got scolded by his teachers for not completing his class work on time and achieving the desired results in exams.
After some months, everybody within the town fell sick due to not caring about their health, in order that they all realised that they needed to eat healthier, and began to eat fruit and vegetables.
Once upon a time, there lived a boy named Hamza who ate healthy food.
However, his best friend Ahmed, who also studied in the same class, only loved junk food.
Hamza was always conscious about his health and he used to bring healthy snacks to school.
Hamza was very active in sports and always won races due to his good performance.
He sneaked into the kitchen, opened the cabinet and took out four packets of chips.
Ahmed went to the balcony of the house and gulped all the chips in minutes.
After that he came to his room and started playing a video game.
His cries brought his mother into his room and he was taken to the hospital by his parents.
The doctor diagnosed food poisoning and admitted him in the hospital for treatment.
When Ahmed didn’t come to school the next day, the kids in his class, including Hamza, wondered where Ahmed was.
After a few days, the teacher called Ahmed’s parents to ask about his constant absence from school.
The next day, the teacher told the class that Ahmed had got food poisoning.
During recess, every single student advised him to make better food choices and eat in a healthy manner.
The fruit seller was very happy to sell his products and to assist people to be healthy.
A weight-loss-independent beneficial effect of exercise on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) management has been reported, but the underlying mechanism is unknown.
To help determine this mechanism, the effects of exercise on individual tissues (liver, adipose tissue, and skeletal muscle) were retrospectively studied.
The weight-loss-independent benefits of exercise include anti-steatotic and anti-stiffness effects in the livers of patients with NAFLD.
We investigated the effects of exercise on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) that were not related to weight loss.
Weight loss, as the result of lifestyle modifications, including dietary and exercise therapies, remains the cornerstone of NAFLD management.
As a result, significant improvements in NAFLD have been achieved following exercise interventions, in the absence of significant weight loss.
The participants performed aerobic exercise of progressively increasing intensity, comprising fast walking and/or light jogging, and the most appropriate amount and intensity of exercise was recommended for each participant according to their daily condition and fitness goals by the trainers in an initial training session.
Myostatin concentration has been shown to negatively correlate with lean mass in healthy adults, high levels can reflect an age-related reduction in muscle mass, the concentration is reduced by aerobic exercise, and myostatin is involved in the onset of insulin resistance as a result of lack of exercise.
Data from Japanese obese men with NAFLD in a 3-month exercise regimen were analysed and compared with those in a 3-month dietary restriction program designed to achieve weight loss.
These benefits seem to be acquired through the modification of inter-organ crosstalk, which is characterised by improvements in organokine imbalance and reductions in inflammation and oxidative stress.
In particular, a level of dietary restriction has been recommended that aims to achieve the maximum calorie deficit in a short period of time.
Because the optimal exercise prescription for patients with NAFLD has yet to be established, a number of studies have recently investigated the type and amount of exercise that would be most appropriate.
The underlying mechanism was studied in a smaller subcohort.
We found that exercise had considerable weight-loss-independent benefits for the liver through a number of mechanisms.
This suggests that exercise is important for NAFLD patients, regardless of whether they lose weight.
The use of exercise alone was not recommended as a therapy for NAFLD until quite recently.
Previously, it had been just an add-on to a dietary approach to achieve a calorie deficit.
However, the weight-loss-independent effects of exercise have recently received a great deal of attention.
Therefore, we wondered whether the weight-loss-independent benefits of regular exercise include an anti-stiffness effect.
However, the mechanisms underlying these potential benefits remain to be determined.
Participants in the exercise groups took part in an aerobic exercise program.